
The Econuocniist:
OR
THE POLITICAL, COMMERCIAL, AGRICULTURAL, AND FREE-TRADE JOURNAL.‘If we make ourselves too little for the sphere of our duty;
wel assured that everything about us will dwindle by degrees, until
. . aes neee of Pa lee
predilection to mean, sordid, home bred cares that will avert the consequences of a fais¢
if, on the contrary, we do not stre tch and expand our minds to the compass of their object
at length our concerns ,
are shrunk to
estimation of our interest,
the dimensions of our
or
It is
minds
lati
prevent th diulapi
which a great empire must fall by mean reparation upon mighty ruins.” —BURKE.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1843. Price 6
—
CONTENTS.
Expiring Commercial Treaty with the Great Free-Trade Demonstration at Liver-
Renewed Commercial Negotiations with Movements of the Anti-Corn-Law League 7

“Tf a writer be conscious that to gain a reception for his favourite doctrine he must
combat with certain elements of opposition, in the taste, or the pride, or the indo-
lence of those whom he is addressing, this will only serve to make him the more
There is a difference between such truths as are merely of a speculative
With the former ali
repetition may be often superfluous ; with the latter it may just be by earnest repeti-
tion, that their influence comes to be
inquirer.” —CH ALMERS.
importunate.
nature and such as are allied with practice and moral feeling.
thoroughly established over the mind of an
OUR EXPIRING COMMERCIAL TREATY WITH THE
BRAZILS.
The present unsettled state of our commercial relations with the
Brazilian Empire presents a subject of ‘more importance than any
other at this moment to our trading, and, we may add, to our social
existence ; for the comforts and welfare of so large a mass of our
people, whether engaged in agriculture or manufactures, have of late
been proved to depend so greatly on the existence of our foreign trade,
iiiat nothing materially affects the one which is not quickly felt by the
other. .
Before entering into the subject Wmucdiately under cousiaeration,
we will, by way of administering some admonitory experience, shortly
refer to what has occurred in our trade to the United States of Ame-
rica, within the last two or three years. By their former tariff
the duties imposed on our manufactures were on a scale which
was subject to gradual reduction, and in 1840 the rates had become
comparatively moderate. The great Southern States, growers of
cotton, dependent chiefly on this country for a market, and desirous
to obtain our manufactures in exchange, at the smaller price, were
always friendly to the lowest rates of duties; but, in the Northern
States, we had two of the largest and most important classes opposed
to an extension of trade with this country, and consequently to low
rates of duties. First,—the manufacturing classes of all kinds,
with whose products our goods came in competition; and, secondly,
the great agricultural classes, whose produce was practically nearly
excluded from this market. They felt that even the peculiar
construction of our scale of corn duties was as if designed to
exclude them particularly from any share of our trade, The
former class we had no means of appeasing, nor was it of much
consequence that we should; but the latter class we had the power of
doing so, not only greatly to their advantage, but also to our own; and
the neglect to listen to their case, so strongly and so frequently urged
upon the attention of the late Government, by individual friends of
free trade in this country, and also by our diplomatic agents in
America, not only as an act of justice to the consumer at home, but as
the only means by which our great trade with that country could be
maintained, threw at length much of the influence of the agricultural
body in the Northern States into that of the manufacturing body, in
antagonism with the trade of England. At their public meetings,
nay, even in the columns of our own daily journals, in articles written
by accredited agents of the parties most interested in a free trade with
us, the tone of argument was, that England adhered with so much té-
nacity to her protective and prohibitory laws, that it became needful
that America should, even against her own interest, submit to some
inconvenience, make some considerable temporary sacrifice of her own
admitted interests in obtaining the cheap goods of England, in order
Others, chiefly of the agricultural body, felt that
owever good a thing it might be to have the cheap goods of
,
»*¥ to coerce the English Government to a more liberal policy towards
fatheir produce,
a . eC
England, yet if they had no means of paying for them, the advantage
was lost to them, and the manufacturers, whose only object was to
obtain a higher protection, had no diffi
they had better encourage the extension of their trade at home, by
paying even higher prices, and thus increase the only market they had
for their produce. Under these influences, which were operating for some
culty to persuade them that
| time, and which were repeatedly and strongly urged upon our Govern-
ment, and strengthened by the political events which occurred in this
country in 1841—which stamped more and more our determination to
persevere in principles of restriction—the free-trade party in America
was so weakened, that their opponents were able to carry the present
And let it
borne in mind, that when men in America were making up their minds
tariff, so destructive to our trade, with little difficulty ever be
as to the policy they would pursue towards England, they were influ-
ed) of some great
change which might be wrought in our tariff in 1842, but by the actual
spirit which had been so unequivocally manifested in the elections
here; and that, not as far as it showed a choice for this or
that man as leader, of this party or that party as predominant—
for these are at all times both to them and us of little importance
—but they looked, and had a right to look, intently, on the great
issues which the English public were called upon to try; which
simply were, extension or restriction, free trade or monopoly. We
decided in favour of the latter, and a country never felt more palpably
and instantly a punishment for an error, than in this instance ; 1
if the surprise reserved for us until the Session of 1842 had been of
a character even much more extensive
enced, not by any secret intentions (if such exist
man
or
and agreeable than it was
one enormous evil had been perpetrated by the moral effect which our
I )
decision had had on other countries. It would be difficult for the
West Riding cf Yorkshire, the town of Liverpool, or the city ef London,
to estimate how much loss they have sustained by the countenance
w iitwutla sucy Bare was
tion.
By a return laid before the House of Commons, on the 12th of July
last, the following results to our export trade have arisen from the
change of the American tariff:
vuaUy Voto ey pesUcipicg Ui Uviisaclal restric-
e
EXpPoRTs TO THE UNITED STATES ry 1841 AnD 1842,
IS41. 1842.
Cotton Manufactures = = 1,515,933 487,276
Earthenware - - - 225,479
Hardware and Cutlery - ~ 984,400
Linen Manufactures - - 1,232,247
Silk Manufactures - - 306,757
Woollen Manufactures - - 4,549,92
Other Goods - - - - 1,683,900 bs
Totals - - = 7,098,642 Ee te
Showing a reduction of upwards of three millions and a half } is.
It has been customary, during the last year, when the bad state of trade
in the manufacturing districts, which so much depressed the demand and
price of agricultural produce, was attributed to the operation of the
Corn Laws and commercial restriction, to be told, No—it
the bad state of the American markets. Will people only take the
trouble to look beyond the proximate to the first cause.
It would be well for those agriculturists who hoisted the bann
monopoly in 1841, to consider what they lost in 1842, from th
pressed and ruined condition of their best consumers, arising out of
is caused by
the loss of the above 3,500,0001. value of theiz labour, We sincerely
believe that the agriculture of Great Britain would not have suffi red
even temporarily to the same extent which it did from this cause and
the general bad state of other trades partly arising therefrom, had the
whole system of protection been abolished, and the Corn Laws totally
repealed in 1841.
While these events have been going forward in North America, we
have had questions of not less importance raised respecting our rela-
tions in the Brazils, and in consequence of the extraordinary and un-
accountable apathy with which the country, even that portion whose
interests are most deeply and dangerously threatened, view all great
questions of commercial policy—it appears at present only too pro-
bable that the Government will be left quietly alane—to do nothing—
until the discussions end in a result ag disastrous in the South as they
haye done ia the North.
} ise
Our commercial relations with Brazil are of soextraordinary a kind,
and perhaps not well known to many of our readers, that it may be
needful shortly to explain them. On the 10th of November, 1827, we
ratified a treaty with that power for fifteen years, “ and furthe r until
one or other « F the high contracting parties shall give notice of tis termination.
In which case the treaty shall terminate at the end of two years from the
date of such notice.” By this treaty English manufactures were to be
admitted into the Brazils at the rate of the most favoured countries—
and at duties not to exceed fifteen per cent., ad valorem, but which du-
ties have in practice been raised by additional charges to about eighteen
and a half per cent. With this moderate duty ow expaet8"rapidly
increased, until that country has become the fourth largest foreign
market we have ; our exports annually amounting. to from 2,600,000.
to 3,000,0001. value of British manufactures. Here, then, is one of our
largest markets, in which we are treated with greater liberality than
we are by any other foreign powers, with very trivial exceptions. Let
us examine what treatment we have ‘given in return, The chief~
almost sole—produce of Brazil, excepting gold and silver, consists of—
SUGAR,
Correr, and
Corron Woot.

On the former'we impose a duty of 63s. per cwt., equal to 300 per cent.
on the value when landed in our docks, and equal to 150 per cent. above
the duty chargeable on sugars produced in our own colonies, which in
practice is quite prohibitory, and we consequently consume none of their
sugar. On their coffee, even by the new tariff, we impose a duty equal
to 200 per cent. on its value landed here, and equal to 100 per cent.
above the duty chargeable.gu coffee produced in our colonies, and we
consequently use little pr none of their coffee. On their cotton wool
we impose a moderaté duty (the same as on North American), and of
this article we import to a value under 250,000/, annually ; to which,
if we add a few other articles to a small extent, we may compute their
exports to this country for our consumption about 300,0001.
Thus a country from which we receive such liberal treatment, which
takes from us on the most favoured terms manufactures to the amount
of at least 2,600,000/. per annum, finds that we practically prohibit
from our consumption every important article which it produces,
except to the trifling amount of 300,000/. Let us conceive the case
reversed ;—imagine this country taking the produce of some other
country to the amount of 2,600,000/. annually, and that country, by
placing high prohibitory duties on our manufactures of 200 to 300 per
cent., consuming only to the extent of 300,000/. thereof, and then let
us conceive the indignation which such treatment would draw forth
from all parties in the country and the state.
It can, therefore, be no matter of surprise that the Brazilians should
have felt verv stranely the unfavonrahla nasitinn in which they were
thus placed in the disposal of their produce, and should have been ex-
ceedingly anxious to get rid of so partial a treaty as carly as possible ;
and this anxiety could be in no way lessened by seeing, in 1841, that
the great struggle between political parties in this country was
actually successfully tried on the issue of affirming the continuance
of this state of the law ; and that the proposition which led to this
decision of the legislature was introduced by the representative of a
great commercial town, second only to London, which had more to
lose or gain by the Brazilian trade than any other. But what was
still more-disheartening to them was, that when again appealed to
the electors of that great commercial town again returned Lord Sandon
as their advocate for restriction of trade. In their anxiety to termi-
nate this treaty they placed a construction on the words quoted above,
that they were at liberty to do so at the end of fifteen years by
giving a notice of two years previous to the expiry, thereof, which they
> = accordingly did in 1840, making the treaty to expire in 1842 ; our
Government, however, contended, and we have no doubt rightly so,
that the power of giving that notice did not arise till the expiry of
the fifteen years in 1842, which version was acted upon, and the due
notice having been repeated in 1842, this treaty accordingly expires
next year. These circumstances are chiefly of importance, as showing
how earnestly and severely the Brazilians feel their disadvantageous
position.

Now, then, what steps have we taken to protect and retain this im-
portant branch ot our trade? Last autumn Mr Ellis was sent out with
powers to negotiate a new treaty ; he, however, returned without any
success, and it has never transpired what were the proposals which he
was authorised to make ; it has, however, transpired that the Brazilian
Government required that their produce should be admitted to this
country at a duty not exceeding that charged on our colonial produce,
more than 10 per cent. ; that duty being now 24 per cwt. on sugar,
and 4d. a pound on coffee, would make, with the addition of 10 per cent.
in each case, the duty on Brazilian sugar and coffee about 110 per cent.,
while our goods are there subject only to a duty of 184 percent. Thus
the matter remains, as far as we are concerned, in statu quo. A long
session of parliament has just concluded, which has been marked in an
nnusual way, by the little that has been done, and during which time
this urgent and important question has scarcely been alluded to.
Whilt xe, however, are doing nothing, let us inquire what others
BIS Woing, and Wuiapyhe Brazilian Government is doing, Wehaye be-
THE ECONOMIST. [September 2,
fore us a long report made by Francisco Vianna, the Finance Minister
to the Emperor, dated the 17th of May last, and also a decree of
the Emperor of the same date, by which he appoints a commission
“for the purpose of arranging a new tariff,’ &c. &c. from which we
extract the following :—
“ Art. 4. It will take the necessary steps to select those commodities which
Sorm the prime necessaries of life, or, from habit, have become the principal
articles of consumption, the produce of, and imported from, foreign states,
subjecting them to a duty of 20 per cent. ad valorem, with the exception,
however, of such as, without prejudice to the consumers amongst the
lower orders, and without risk of being smuggled, can be charged with a
higher rate of duty. Of these a separate list must be formed, and on which
a duty of 24 per cent. shall be charged, notwithstanding they may be con-
sidered articles of necessity.
“6. It must, likewise, ascertain what kinds of produce or merchandize
imported from other countries are identical with those produced in Brazil,
the latter being prejudiced by competition with the former ; on such a duty of
from 50 to 60 per cent. should be imposed, according to the quality of those
produced in the empire, the amount of capital employed in their produc-
tion, and the perfection of which they are susceptible.
“7. The commission will subject to the said rate of duties all such pro-
ducts and merchandize as are now beginning to be produced or manufac-
tured in the empire, or the manufacture of which can be readily introduced
from the abundance of the raw material indigenous now produced : gradu-
ating the scale of such duties according to the greater or less degree of
perfection they can be manufactured in this country (Brazil).
“8. Cotton manufactures of the coarsest quality shall be subjected to a
duty of 60 per cent., those of finer quality to 40 or 50.
“9, All looms and machinery employed in making yarn, or weaving
cloth, are to be exempted from all duties whatever.
“11. Wines and spirituous liquors are to pay 50 per cent., and all other
goods, wares, and merchandize not specially mentioned in this decree shall
pay 34 per cent.
“14, AND FINALLY, WILL TAKE ESPECIAL
AGAINST THE TERMINATION OF THE TREATY WITH GREAT BRITAIN, SUB-
MITTING THE RESULT OF ITS LABOUR TO ME, THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF
my SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE Finance DEPARTMENT.
CARE TO BE PREPARED
In these extracts we are forcibly struck with four important consi-
derations :—
First. That whatever duties the Brazilian Government impose, those
on the first necessaries of life shall be on the lowest scale.
Second. That they are about to place a prohibitory duty on most of
the articles which we export to that country.
Third. That they are ready to avail themselves of our new laws
allowing the export of machinery ; and
Fourth. That all their arrangements are directed to be “ prepared
against the termination of the treaty with Great Britain.”
In the meantime a Brazilian Princess has been united by marriage
with a French Prince; and rumours are afloat of a commercial
treaty being at this moment privately under discussion between these
two countries.
In Germany, also, where Brazilian produce is chiefly consumed at
very low duties, and where a strong desire becomes manifest to extend
their export trade ot manufactured goods, the hope of inducing the
Brazilian Government to conclude a treaty with them favourable to
their goods is daily becoming stronger. The following extract of a
letter in a Bremen paper, translated into the Leeds Mercury, accurately
expresses the very general feeling in Germany on this subject :—
“ There is scarcely any country in the world that possesses such a power
as Germany to procure a great sale of the products of its industry. This
power of Germany when united, as we hope it soon will be, consists exclu-
sively of the great use of colonial productions, No consideration towards
its own colonies, no political dependence on neighbouring states will tie up
its hands; it only requires the will of its distinguished statesmen, with the
assistance and advice of practical men of business from the sea-ports, to
call into life a commercial policy, founded on reciprocity after the model
of the United States of North America. Almost all those markets abroad
now supplied with the British manufactures in preponderating quantities,
and principally the Brazilian market, which is now almost exclusively
in the possession of British industry, would be constrained to make a
greater use of German manufactures, as soon as United Germany had the
courage to impose differential duties on the products of those countries,
which till now have only come to us in British and foreign ships, and almost
exclusively in return for British manufactures, till they are convinced of
the indispensability of the great German consuming markets, and see the
necessity of making reciprocal concessions.”
Concurrent with all these circumstances, a Brazilian Minister has
arrived among us for the purpose of re-opening a negotiation for a new
treaty. But strange to say, notwithstanding the heavy stakes which
hang on the result, his appearance creates as little interest or excite-
ment with the public, and for that reason only, with the Government,
as ifthe two countries had no connexion with each other. Let us
shortly examine what this connexion is, and whose interests are now
so deeply at stake. In 1840, the exports of British produce to the
Brazils consisted of—
£.
Brass and Copper Manufactures ~ - - 40,914
Burrer and CHEESE - - - - - 72,546
Cotton Manufactures - - - ~ = 1,451,345
Hosiery - - - - - . - 73,364
Earthenware ” - ~ > - ~ 40,035
Hardware and Cutlery - - - ~ - 58,021
fron and Steel, wrought and unwrought - 59,320
Linen Manufactures’ - + - - - 931,551
Soap and Candles - - . - - 67,001
Woollen Manufactures and Hosiery = - 307,930
Other articles of all kinds - “ . - 223,826
Total oe» «ws £2,625,853
Which employed 49,912 tons of British shipping, We baye made
¥ y
tw —_ _—_—— 2
tits enumeration in order to show how varied are the interests
in this country which are deeply involved in the result of this ques-
tion. By the new tariff proposed the largest portion of all this
trade will infallibly be lost ; and hereafter, when our manufacturing
districts are thrown into still deeper gloom and distress, WHEN FARMERS
ARE STILL MORE AND MORE DEPRESSED IN CONSEQUENCE OF DEFICIEN™
DEMAND AND LOW PRICES, when we shall ascribe thei» euerings to
restriction and monopoly, we shall again »¢ (old,—-No ; it arises trom
the bad state of the Brazilian wwarkets,
We have, bhow“ver, only viewed this subject in relation to the just
complaiuts of the Brazils of the very unequal character of our trade 3
put if we had space we could easily show that whatever hey have sut-
fered from that cause, from being deprived of this market for the sal
of their produce, the people of this country have suffered infinitely more
by having been deprived of that which would have been to them a
source of the greatest blessing and comfort ; and that the conditions
insisted on by the Brazilians for a continuance of our trade—instead
of being onc rous to us, are among the acts which would, independently
of any other considerations, be of the greatest benefit to the country.
We have shown in our preliminary number that the supply of sugars
has not increased for the last twenty years, while the population has
increased at least six millions ; and what the Brazilians ask is, that we
should have larger supply at lower prices than we now pay.
It is, however, alarming to see the deeply culpable apathy, or
ignorance, or both, which prevails in the public mind on this
important question. Have the people in Liverpool not yet seen
enough of ruin amongst their neighbours, enough of domestic heart-
burnings and wailings, during the last four years, that they can now
look on unconcernedly and see another large branch of their trade
placed in the greatest hazard? Have the manufacturers in the
Potteries, in Birmingham, Sheffield, Leeds, Manchester, Glasgow, and
elsewhere, become so heedless of their own interests, and those of the
millions of hard-working people around them, that they disregard the
loss of the fourth largest foreign market which they now possess ?
Have the large farmers and graziers in Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire,
Yorkshire, and Cheshire become so reconciled to their share of th«
ruin and depression in the manufacturing districts, that they are
prepared for a still further loss of demand, a still further sinking of
prices ? Where is Mr Christopher and their other
Parliament who spent many long days
advocates in
) the Canadian
Corn Bill, a bill of such doubtful result, if any, that all parties were
in discussing
disagreed among themselves as to whether it would produce greater
Her«
continued to be neglected as it is, will produce greater mischief to
restriction or freedom of supply ? is a question which, if
the farmers of this country than a Canadian Corn Bill passed every
day in the year ; and yet it seems to receive not a passing thought.
Or is it that people are all trusting to Ministers ?
other means they will be miserably disappointed.
If the« y are w ithout
A long session has
been passed with all these facts before their eyes, without a single pro-
position on the subject ; and now the Brazilian Minister having arrived
in London, the Queen’s Ministers have departed to enjoy the lull of
the autumn in quiet and retirement, and it may, therefore, be that the
foreign Minister may find his time better occupied at the Courts of
Paris or Berlin.
No, if the country will make an effort—and it is infinitely more
worth an effort than most of the little, silly,
engross and excite the public mind
petty squabbles which
they must take the subject into
their own hands ; they must forego that blind reliance on the myste-
ries of Downing street and Whitehall ; and, by exercising the same
popular influence on the Ministry which on another occasion they
were able lately to do, they may yet succeed in averting this great
evil ;—but let no man blame the Ministers while he himself remains
heedless and supine in matters of this importance immediately and
deeply affecting himself; the question at issue to the British public
really being, whether we will accept cheap sugar, and retain, nay
improve, our means of paying for it, or whether we will persist in
paying an extravagant price, and be deprived, at the same time, of
much of the means we have at present to do so.
cr
RENEWED COMMERCIAL NEGOTIATIONS WITH
PORTUGAL.
The Doxe or Parmetra is in this country—and we have good au-
thority for stating that he comes at the request of the Queen of Por-
tugal—not only with powers, but with very distinct instructions to
scttle the subjects of dispute in arranging the tariffs of the two coun-
tries. It appears that Oporto, a place at all times the peace of which
gives considerable concern to the court in Lisbon, has given hints
which the Queen and her Ministers do not think it wise to disregard.
It is therefore likely that the wine trade will for some time at least
be again exposed to that partial suspension and uncertainty, from
which it has already suffered so much, arising from that mischievous
practice of regulating our trade by the will and caprice of other coun-
tries instead of acting only on principles best suited te our own con-
dition aud wants,
THE ECONOMIST. 3
THE INCOME TAX.
From the great number of complaints which we have heard respe Ct-
1
ing the ope ration oft the Income Tax as to the mode in which the
profits of trades and professions under Schedule D aro determined
belivve (hat a provision in
, we
act, very important to
little
| I intends
the current year, ol all traders,
the
have reason + the
vue mereantile community,
The
has be bn quite overlooked, or LS
ceneral impression ars to be that the act
known.
that the income for the charge of shall
be determined by the averag pront of the three preceding years :
and of professions, the actual profit of the preceding year. In this
there is a slight misunderstanding, which in many cases which have
come under our notice, leads to a very serious error.
The law contemplates that the sum on which trades and professions
the actual
as this amount cannot pos-
sibly be ascertained during the currency, or indeed till the
shall be charged during the current year, shall only be
profits made during the same year ;—but
end of the
year, it provides that the returns for the purpose of assessments shall
he preceding year,
three preceding
that if at the end of the current year it si all be discovered that the actual
be made in one ease of the profits made t and in the
other, of the average profits made in th years—hbut
, ' 1 , : .
profits realized in that year are not so large as the return made from the
l tfion to t Ci
J
M ing
USSESSIIE nt
above critleri , on ap] ners an ] pro f
submitted to them of such fact, they are authorised to reduce the
accordin ly, and even though actually paid, to order a reimbursement of
th ¢
In consequence of the great depression of business during the
rcess,
last
year, it has been a very general complaint that the rates being im-
posed on the average of the three preceding years of much better
business, and in many cases where individuals had made large sums
in one of the three preceding years by accidental speculation, which
went much to swell the average, great complaints have been made
hat, instead of three per cent, on the act ial profits of 1842 y have
paid double or treble that rate. By this provision of the act, how-
ever, all such parties, as well as those who were diss itistied with the
manner in which the Commissioners in many cases compel them
to make up their average profits, will find relief L} law does not
contemplate anv increase of rat should the actu l pre fits of t year
exceed those determined by the provided ¢ iteri The f wing is
a copy of the clause in the act :—
* And be it enacted, That if within or at the o 1 of tl year current at
the time of mak ng any assessment u er this Act, or at the end of any
year when such assessment ought to have been made, any pers iarged
to the duties contained in Schedul D). whether he shall have puted
his profits or gains arising as last aforesaid « the amount thereof in the
preceding or current year, or on an average of years, shall find and shal
prove to the satisfaction of the comn ers by w m tl Sse nent
was made, that his profits and gains durit ich ye for wi the com-
putation was made, fell short of the sum so comput respect of the
same source of profit on which the computatir vas made, it shall be law-
ful for the said commissioners to cause tne assessment made for such cur-
rent year to be amended in respect of such source of profit as the case
shall require ; and in case the su 1 assessed shal hav been paid, to certify
under their hands to the commissioners for special purposes at t head
Office for Stamps and Taxes in England the amount of the sum overpaid
upon such first assessment; and thereupon the said last-mentioned com-
missioners shall issue an order for the repayment of such sum as shall have
been so overpaid ; and such order shall be directed to the Receiver-Gene-
ral of Stamps and Taxes, or to an officer for receipt or collector of the
duties granted by this Act, or to a distributor or sub-distributor of
stamps, and shall authorise and require the repayment of the said sum so
overpaid as aforesaid, in like manner as is hereinbefore pro d with
respect to the allowances to be granted under No. Vof Schedule (A) of
this Act.”
COURT AND ARISTOCRACY.
THE ROYAL EXCURSION.
Last week, the sudden arrival and sudden departure of the sons of Louis
Philippe, the King of the French, created some speculation and uneasiness
in the public mind. It was conjectured that they must have received some
slight or intimation at Windsor, which caused their apparently abrupt leave ;
and the natural inference was, that if this were the case, it would embitter
the feeling between this country and France, and increase the chances
of war.
On Saturday morning, the public mind was relieved by the intelligence
that the visit of the French Princes to the Queen, though hasty, was far
from being unfriendly. The King of the French, on learning that the
Queen of Great Britain proposed to take a marine excursion, sent his sons
with a message to say, that if her Majesty would honour him with a visit at
his Chateau d’Eu, he would at once proceed to the coast in order to receive
her, and pay his respects. This report, from the character of Louis Phi-
lippe, was considered exceedingly probable ; and as it was understood that
her Majesty had accepted the invitation in the same frank and cordial
spirit in which it had been given, fear was turned into pleasure, and onthe
natal day of Prince Albert the metropolis and the Stock Exchance had the
satisfaction of knowing that the “dark clouds” which rumour of the pre-~
vious day had caused to “lower upon our house,” were “in the deep bosom
of the ocean buried.”
So Saturday last was the birthday of his Royal Highness Prinee Albert—
on that day he was twenty-four years of age. A very young man indeed,
to be already the parent stock of what promises to be at once a numerous
and a new Royal line. But young as he is, he has conducted himself with a
propriety and a judgment, in this his adopted country, which has rendered
him a universal favourite. Everybody likes Prince Albert—graceful,
accomplished, handsome, and kindly-hearted, he won golden opinions from:
all ranks and classes. The conduct of the Queen towards him is also such
as to conciliate the good will of all. By prerogative and law her Majesty
is hig “ lord and master,” but she ever conducts herself towards him as @
dutiful and affectionate wife, setting, thereby, an example of domestic
decorum to the humblest of her subjects. They are ee. a very
happy Royal couple, which has ever been too much of a rarity amongst
kings, princes, and other “ grit folk. ‘ Long may their felicity last !
Savuiday, we have caid, was the Prince’s twenty-fourth birthday; and
of course it was kept as a féte. Virpint- Wotor was selected as the scene;
there was a banquet in the Fishing ‘Temple, at Which uc. Majesty, Prince
Albert, the Duchess of Kent, and the Court circle, were present; the fem —
ple, the frigates on the lake, &c. were illuminated ; and the enjoyments of
the evening were concluded by a splendid display of fireworks, which
were witnessed by upwards of ten thousand persons, many of whom had
been attracted to the scene from the metropolis. wi ; os
On Sunday the Queen and Prince Albert attended divine service within
the Castle; and on Monday morning they left W indsor for their marine
excursion. ‘They proceeded to the Farnborough station (South-W estern
Railway), which is sixteen miles from Windsor, where the Royal railway
iage was in waiting.
tthe various stations on the line between Farnborough and Southampton
were decorated with flags and laurel, and the inhabitants of the adjacent
country and villages were assembled in great numbers to show their
loyalty, and gratify their curiosity. At Basingstoke, more particularly,
the assemblage of spectators was very numerous, and appropriate sentences
or mottoes were emblazoned on the railings by the road-side.
At the station at Winchester, the concourse of spectators lined one side
of the road for nearly half a mile. All of them expressed their loyalty
and gratification by loud cheers, and waving of handkerchiefs and hats.
Her Majesty and Prince Albert bowed repeatedly as the train passed at a
very rapid rate. ;
At twenty minutes to eleven o'clock, the train reached the terminus at
Southampton, where every preparation had been made to do honour to
the Royal visitors. Unfortunately the morning was not propitious for the
occasion. The rain was descending in drizzling showers of sleet, and the
wind was blowing cold and comfortless :, nevertheless, thousands of people
were assembled, both sides of the railroad were crowded, and the platform
at the terminus was covered. The Queen, on alighting, was received by
the Duke of Wellington and the Earls of Aberdeen and Liverpool. Her
Majesty was loudly cheered as she entered the Royal carriage, which was
drawn up close to the platform. The band struck up “ God save the
Queen,” and the cannons thundered forth a Royal salute, whilst from the
towers and steeples of the churches the bells rang out peal after peal of
welcome. Her Majesty looked remarkably well, and both she and Prince
Albert were in high spirits. They bowed repeatedly to the crowds of
spectators, who pressed as closely round the carriage as the police and the
guard of honour permitted them. The Queen was dressed in a claret-
coloured silk dress, over which she wore a Paisley shawl worked with
green; she had on a straw bonnet with green feathers and ribands,
Prince Albert was in a plain dark frock coat.
Passing through Sonthampton, which was literally “decorated” for
the occasion, the Royal carriages reached the pier at a quarter past eleven
o'clock, when her Majesty and the Prince embarked without delay on |
board the admiral’s barge, rowed by twelve seamen; the Royal yacht
lying at a short distance, not certainly above two or three boats’ lengths
from the land. j
were received by Lord Haddington and other Lords of the Admiralty,
Admiral Sir Charles Rowley, Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence, and the other
officers in command. Sir Hercules Pakenham was also in attendance.
Lords Aberdeen and Liverpool were on board the Royal yacht, and accom-
panied her Majesty and Prince Albert on this excursion. The Duke of
Wellington was on the pier, but did not go on board the yacht; his Grace
left for London at one o'clock by a special train, Immediately on her
Majesty ascending the deck of the Royal yacht, another Royal salute was
fired. “Her Majesty did not long remain on deck, the incessant rain com-
pelling her to retreat ly the vabiu,
The Royal party proceeded to Cowes, and afterwards made an excursion |
to Spithead, returning to Ryde, where they landed for a short time, dining |
and sleeping on board the Royal yacht; which, on Monday night, was |
]
anchored in Cowes Roads. Tuesday was devoted to an excursion to
Norris Castle, in the Isle of Wight, where her Majesty formerly resided
when Princess Victoria, and the remainder of the day to a sail round the
island. Wednesday was spent sailing along the coast, westwards, and at five
o'clock in the afternoon the Royal yacht arrived off Plymouth. The
firing of a gun from the citadel announced to the expectant thousands
the appearance of the Victoria and Albert, in the offing, and the salutes
which immediately followed, and the buzz of “ The Queen, the Queen,”
in all directions, produced a most animated and interesting scene. About
half-past five o'clock the Victoria and Albert entered the Sound by the |
eastern channel of the Breakwater, and having lessened the power of her
steam, proceeded across the Sound in the most majestic style, and was
saluted as she passed onward by the men-of-war lying at anchor, viz. :
Caledonia, 120 ; Formidable, 84; Apollo, troop ship ; the Neapolitan
frigate; the garrison ; a number of yachts and merchant vessels ; the crews
of the respective vessels, dressed in blue and white, manned the yards, |
and the scene altogether was very splendid and animating. ;
At eight o’clock on Thursday morning the Queen and her Royal Con-
sort left the yacht, and landed at Mount Edgecumbe, where they remained
for two hours, and returned on board. His Royal Highness Prince Albert
afterwards visited the Dockyard and the Victualling office. All the
authorities, naval and municipal, were active in paying their respects, and
showing due attention,
It is said that the Royal Visitors intend proceeding to Falmouth on
leaving Plymouth, and after to cross the Channel, to visit the King of the
French. We understand that the Lords of the Admiralty have given strict
orders that the commander of the expedition should on no account keep
at sea after it is dark, but put into the first port he can make before the
daylight departs.
On Monday morning the Duke of Wellington, the Earl of Liverpool,
and the Earl of Aberdeen, started from the Nine Elms station, Vauxhall,
in order to be with her Majesty at Southampton. The Duke is proverbially
punctual, and arrived at the station as early as half-past six. Five minutes
afterwards the Earl of Aberdeen arrived, and asked, with some apparent
anxiety, whether the gallant Duke had arrived, and on being informed that
he was at that time inspecting the train, jocularly remarked, in allusion,
doubtless, to his Grace’s proverbial punctuality, “ God bless my soul, I
thought I should have been before him this morning.”
Departure or THE Roya Famity ror Bricnton. — Their Royal
Highnesses the Prince of Wales, the Princess Royal, and the Princess
Alice, attended by the Dowager Lady Lyttleton, left Windsor Castle, on
Tuesday, for the Royal Pavilion at Brighton, where their Royal Highnesses
will remain during her Majesty’s marine excursion, which, it is expected,
will extend to about the middle of September. The following members of
They were thus conveyed to the Royal yacht, where they |
THE ECONOMIST.
|
[September 2,
the Royal household will be resident at the pavilion during the sojourn
of their Royal Highnesses at Brighton: —The Lord in Waiting, the
Groom in Waiting, Colonel Arbuthnot, the Equerry in Waiting, and the
Hon. C. A. Murray, the Master of the Household. The distance from
Windsor to Brighton is a little more than 60 miles.
EsPaRTERO, THE REGENT oF Sparn.—Since the arrival of this illustrious
exile in this country, he has resided at Mivart’s hotel, living retired and
secluded. He has, however, been honoured by the calls of many distin-
gulsicd personages, including the leading members of the Cabinet; and
the Earl of Aur xdeen, ag Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, wrote to
the Regent, on Friday evening, to signify it was her Majesty’s pleasure
that his Highness would have an audiences with the Queen, at three o’clock
on Saturday afternoon, at Windsor Castle. In consequence, the Regent
left Mivart’s hotel, and proceeded by a special train to Slengh, and from
thence direct to the Castle. Colonel Gurrea, private secretary to the
Regent, alone accompanied his Highness. The Regent had every reason
to be highly gratified with the reception he met with from her Majesty
and Prince Albert. The interview of his Highness with the Queen and
Prince Albert lasted about half'an hour. On leaving Windsor the Regent
and Colonel Gurrea came direct to town, and reached Mivart’s at a quarter
past six o’clock. The Regent dined on Tuesday with Lord and Lady
Palmerston, with a select party.
— The Duke de la Victoria and suite removedon Wednesday morning
from Mivart’s to his mansion in the Regent’s Park.
Tue Kine or Hanover.—The departure of his Majesty, who has lat-
terly been spending his time between St James’s Palace, Kew, and Bushy
Park, is not yet definitely known.
— Sir Robert Peel returned to Windsor Castle on Sunday afternoon, on
a visit to the Queen. Sir Robert, after the departure of the Queen and
Prince Albert for Southampton, left Windsor Castle and returned to town,
and afterwards started for his seat, Drayton Manor, Staffordshire.
— Viscount Morpeth has left Castle Howard for Bolton Abbey, on a
visit to the Duke of Devonshire, who has a shooting party there.
— Lord Blantyre has arrived at Trentham on a visit to the Duke and
Duchess of Sutherland, where his Lordship stays until after his marriage
with Lady Evelyn Leveson Gower,
— Lordand Lady Francis Egerton are passing the autumnat WorsleyHall.
or
THE METROPOLI
A Special Court of Common Council of the City of London was yester-
day held in the Commercial Room No. 1, at the Guildhall (the Council
Chamber being under repair), to consider the propriety of the Court ex-
o.
| pressing its sympathy with General Espartero, the Regent of Spain, and
its regret at the frustration of his plans for the benefit of his country.
The Court was convened in consequence of a requisition, which was most
numerously and respectably signed, having been presented to the Lord
Mayor by Mr Deputy Green and Mr Deputy Peacock.
The Lord Mayor took the chair at twelve o’clock.
The minutes of the proceedings of the last Court were read and con-
firmed, and some preliminary routine business having been transacted,
The Town Clerk read the requisition, and the order for convening the
Court, after which,
Mr Deputy Peacock, in a speech laudatory of the conduct of the Regent,
proposed the following resolution :—
“That this Court, feeling a deep interest in the independence and
prosperity of the Spanish people, intimately connected as they are with
the state of commercial and political intercourse which must tend to the
mutual advantage of both nations, has witnessed with disappointment and
sorrow the forced retirement of the Regent of Spain from that country,
which undor his zealous, disinterested, and patriotic guidance was making
rapid strides in the path of constitutiona: government. ‘That it desires to
express sincere sympathy with the Regent, and sorrow for the frustration
of his wise and philanthropic plans for the permanent happiness of Spain;
and its cordial wish that the triumph of corrupt intrigue and foreign anti-
national influence may be rendered of short duration, by his speedy recal
to the country he has served so faithfully, feeling assured that the
| happiness of the people, the only valuable end of good government, will
be thereby increased.
Mr Deputy Green seconded the resolution.
Sir Peter Laurie moved the previous question by way of amendment.
This was the second deliberative body in the kingdom, and they ought
not to commit themselves lightly to the policy of interference with the
internal concerns of other nations, as they would do if they consented to
this resolution. (Hear, hear.) They had no right to interfere in the in-
ternal arrangement of the Government of Spain. What should we think
if the Spanish nation were to attempt to interfere with us? This ques-
| tion must be considered politically, for after all it was a political question
After a somewhat animated debate, the amendment was negatived, and
any difficulty respecting the presentation of the address was removed by
the Lord Mayor, who invited the Common Council to an entertainment
at the Mansion House, at which it is presumed Espartero will be present.
CENTRAL CRIMINAL COURT.
On Friday week Lieutenant Cuddy was tried for his participation, as
second, in the recent fatal duel, in which Colonel Fawcett lost his life.
The indictment against Mr Gulliver, the surgeon, was abandoned, and he
was admitted as a witness, The jury felt the dilemma in which they
were placed, between the penalties of the law and those sanctions of
public opinion by which, even to this day, duelling is tacitly recognised
as a virtue of fashionable life. They at last found a verdict ot Not
Guilty, on the ground that no legal evidence had been given to justify a
conviction for guilty participation. The metropolitan press, and a portion
of the provincial, has, in consequence, been preaching about duelling,
and how it can be eradicated. A little more of the true spirit of Chris-
tianity might be worth a trial.
A wretch called Hamilton was tried for writing letters to a respectable
family of the name of Hopper, threatening to expose the daughters as
guilty of infamous conduct, unless he was bribed to silence with money.
The young ladies were naturally dreadfully agitated by the persevering
conduct of the scoundrel, but they had the courage to get him appre-
hended and committed for trial; and on Saturday last the jury convicted
him, and the judge, Baron Rolfe, sentenced him to fourteen years’ trans-
portation.
On Saturday, Leopold Meyer, aged 20, traveller, and Robert Berg
aged 21, interpreter, were placed at the bar, Meyer charged with
stealing a diamond ring, value 201. the property “of Philip George
Dodd, in his dwelling-house, and Berg with feloniously receiving the
same, well knowing it to have been stolen.—The jury returned a verdict
of Gyilty,—Berg requested to be allowed once more to speak for himyelf,
or, as he expressed himself, “ My lord, I beg of you to allow me one last
free vote.” He then proceeded to denounce Inspector Pearse as a per-
jurer and suborner of perjury, and said that he (Berg) and many more
after him would stand at the bar and have their liberties sworn away and
all their prosperity and hopes blasted by similar practices, but God would
not be always silent. He would at length speak and vindicate the inno-
cent. After going on in this strain for some time, he said he appealed to
the gentlemen of the public press to do him justice, and let the world
know that he owed his present misfortunes to Inspector Pearse.—He was
then sentenced to seven years’ transportation, and Meyer to six months’
imprisonment with hard labour.
Samuel Wand, aged 38, baker, was indicted for forging a deed of assign-
ment, &c., with intent to defraud James Christian Clement Bell and
others. It appeared that a deceased relative of the prisoner, a Mrs Wand,
had left a large property to be divided amongst seventeen persons, one of
whom was the prisoner, whose share amounted to about 301. a year. This
he disposed of some years since, and the present charge was brought
against him in consequence of his having negotiated a sale of his cousin’s
share, whose name he forged. The fraud was practised on the London
Reversionary Interest Society, who purchased the reversion (503%. 10s.).
Mr Bell and others were trustees of the society.—The jury returned a
verdict of Guilty.—Mr Justice Williams addressed the prisoner, and sen-
tenced him to ten years’ transportation.
On Monday, Samuel Sydney Smith, aged 32, agent, was indicted for
feloniously forging and uttering a bill of exchange for 150/. with intent to
defraud Lyon Samuels, a silversmith and jeweller, residing in Bury street,
St Mary Axe. On the 9th of March last the prisoner called upon him,
and presented the bill in question for discount. He described it as the
bill of Henry Bush and Co., highly respectable merchants, of Baldwin
street, in the city of Bristol, one of the partners being a member of the
town council. He said he was sent to witness by Messrs Ford and Savage,
solicitors, of Henrietta street, Covent garden. Witness, knowing that
firm to be highly respectable, desired the prisoner to leave the bill, in
order that he might make inquiries respecting it. Instead of doing so,
the prisoner proposed to take witness to Messrs Ford and Savage at once.
Witness assented, and they both got into a cab and drove to Henrietta
street, when they were informed that Messrs Ford and Savage were from
home. The prisoner then volunteered to bring a letter from the firm,
which witness said would answer; and in the course of the evening he
(witness) received a letter from his clerk, Mr Ellis, which purported to
be from Mr Savage. On the following day the prisoner called again, and
asked if witness had received the letter. Witness said his clerk had read
it to him, as witness could not himself read English. The letter recom-
mended the prisoner as an honest respectable man, and upon the faith of
the letter witness discounted the bill, giving the prisoner a check for 100/.
on account. Next day witness gave him another check for 40/. and the
remaining 10/. was to be settled when the bill was paid, which never hap-
pened, for it was dishonoured.—The witness was severely cross-examined by
Mr Ballantine, with a view to show that he wasa regular bill discounter.—
A witness, calling himself Henry Bush, was adduced on behalf of the
prisoner, with the view of proving that he was the true and genuine Bush
who drew the bill, and on whose credit it was discounted. He, however,
broke completely down in his evidence, and proved to the satisfaction of
the jury that whatever credit he had was anything but creditable, and
the judge directed that he should be committed for trial at the next ses-
sions for his share in the forgery. Smith was therefore found guilty, and
sentenced to be transported for life. ;
There were various other trials, for various other of the routine crimes
which are brought under investigation at every session and assize. Of
these we do not think it necessary to preserve a record.
Merropouitan Pornice Courtrs.—Including the Mansion House and
Guildhall, there are thirteen metropolitan police courts, which serve as
the vents for much of the crime, folly, absurdity, and cruelty, that are
continually fermenting amongst the ignorant and the depraved portion of
two millions of a dense population.
ally noticeable cases.
We shall, of course, select occasion-
Father Mathew is still pursuing his labours in the metropolis, some-
times meeting with resistance and opposition; but, on the whole, proving
very successful in administering the pledge.
An inquiry was gone into at the Sheriff's Court before a jury, to
ascertain whether certain goods were the property of Mr Deane, the
alleged Crown debtor, or of Mr Threlkeld, who had advanced a loan of
1,5001. to Mr Deane. The jury returned a verdict for the claimant.
On Friday morning, shortly before one o'clock, a fire, which was not
extinguished until property to the amount of some thousands of pounds
was consumed, broke out in the spacious premises belonging to Messrs
Staines, well known as the Stingo Brewery, situate in the New road,
Paddington. ‘The premises in question were bounded on one side by the
Queen’s Lying-in Hospital, on the other by the Yorkshire Stingo
Tavern.
THE PROVINCES.
Derspy, Ava. 26.—Considerable sensation was caused here to-day, by
a voluntary discovery, on the part of the individual self-implicated, named
Joseph Growcock, about seventeen years of age, of an attempt to com-
mit murder. He had kept a school at Leicester about nine months, at the
expiration of which period he suddenly decamped, in consequence of a
charge henging over him of having stolen some books. He states that
during his stay in Nottingham, lie was “frequently haunted with a fiendish
desire to murder somebody ag
‘ and that he made several attempts to decoy
children into secluded spots, for the purpose of gratifying this extraor-
dinary propensity. Having given a circumstantial account of his having
decoyed away a young girl, who, when lying asleep in a secluded Jane, he
beat about the head with a hammer, and left for dead, police officers
were despatched, and found that the statement was too true
girl was not dead, but dreadfully wounded
Qh
The poor
about the head, and the blood
vas conveved to the Infirmary.
}
covered the ground where she lay
where every attention was paid to her; but
: at present it is impossible to
say whether she will recover.
’ Growcock, who is a stout, healthy-looking
youth, 1
bbily dressed, was taken before the magistrates, and, in the
coolest manner imaginable, repeated the statement he had previously
, and seemed quite indifferent to the cons quences. There was a rest-
less rolling of the eyes, which
} auct
indicated insanity; but there was nothing
in his col He was re-
to warrant the conclusion that
manded for further examination.
BirnMINGHAM.
he is insane.
Re-ORGANISATION OF THE CHARTISTS.—The Chartists
are preparing to share in the great political movement now going on at
Birmingham. A conference of delegates is appointed to take place there
next week.
MaANcHESTER.—MEFTING or SaALEsMEN, CLERKS, &.—A meeting of
salesmen, warchousemen, and others engaged in the Manchester trade, was
THE ECONOMIS ie
held onMonday evening last, in the lecture theatre of the Athenzeum, for the
purpose of receiving the statements of the committee, and adopting a peti-
tion to their employers asking for a cessation of employment on Friday
afternoons.
ASSIZE INTELLIGENCE.
NORTHERN CIRCUIT.—Liverrootn, Avucust 28.
Tur Preston Guirp Rosspery.— John Anderson, aged 34, was
indicted for receiving seven Bank of England notes, for 100/. each,
the property of John Marquis, knowing the same to have been stolen.
This the notorious individual, who, in Liverpool, was the great
putter up of bank-note robberies, and whose adroitness made him a general
banker for the “swell mob” in London. His name has been recently
much before the public, in consequence of the three notes, of 1,000/. each,
which were so dexterously taken from the person of Mr Blakemore, M.P.
for Wells, in a London omnibus, having been traced to him. After a long
trial, he was found guilty, and sentenced to transportation for fourteen
years,
is
SOUTH LANCASHIRE ASSIZES.—Aveust 25.
John Hulme, alias “ Cast-metal Jack,” was indicted for the wilful
murder of Thomas Garland, on the road between Ashton and Manchester,
on the 3lst of October, 1840. The circumstances of the murder are still
fresh in the recollection of most readers. There had been a turn-out of
sawyers, and Garland and three others, who were working there as knob-
sticks, were returning to Manchester (it being Saturday evening), when
about half a mile from the new church, four men rushed from behind a
cart going the opposite way, and which had concealed them, and attacked
Garland and the others with bludgeons and rods of iron. Garland re-
ceived a cut of the thumb, was afterwards made an out-patient of the
infirmary, but the wound mortified, produced lock-jaw, and death ensued.
—Evidence affecting the prisoner did not come out that he was one of the
men till subsequent to a second murder by the turn-outs, when he had
gone to America. He returned from America only a few months since.
—The jury, after an absence of ten minutes only, returned a verdict of
Manslaughter.—His Lordship, addressing the prisoner, said: The jury
had acquitted him of murder, but had found him guilty of manslaughter
under very aggravated circumstances, which morally as well as legally
left his offence but one step short of murder. The injury he had done
was not the result of sudden heat of blood or quarrel, but of a deliberate
determination to commit violence, for the purpose of preventing others
working for the wages they chose to work for. Every man in England
had a right to work for whom he would, and any attempt to prevent it
was not only illegal, but ‘an attempt to exercise an odious tyranny,
utterly intolerable in a free country like this. The safety of society
requires that an example be made in your case, and the sentence of the
court is, that you be transported for the term of your natural life.
DREADFUL MURDER.
Since Tuesday morning the beautiful seat of the Earl of Darnley, at
Cobham park, near Gravesend, in Kent, its village, and the surrounding
suburbs, have been the scene of much excitement in consequence of the
perpetration of a murder, attended with circumstances of a truly dis-
tressing character. The victim Mr Dadd, sen., 55 years of age, @
person who a few years ago carried on a most extensive business at
Rochester, as a chemist and druggist. He had lately, however, retired, and
had gone to London, where he has since resided, in Suffolk street, Pall-
mall East, and gained some notoriety by the manufacture of an improved
oil for artists. He was found lying by the roadside, with his throat cut,
and a knifo not far from hie hady It has sinee been ascertained, beyond
a doubt, that the murderer of the unfortunate gentleman is no other than
is
his third son, Richard Dadd, a fine young man, 24 years age, and that he
committed the act whilst labouring under an aberration of intellect. He
was an artist of some celebrity, and has gained several prizes at the Royal
Acaaemy. A year or two ago this unfortunate youth accompanied Sir
Thomas Phillips, the late Mayor of Newport, on a tour through Italy,
Switzerland, Germany, &c., for the purpose of improving himself in
his art. Owing to his arduous studies and constant exposure to the sun,
his brain became affected to such a melancholy extent as to produce
insanity. The circumstances attending the dreadful deed have not yet
been correctly ascertained, nor has the youth been apprehended. ;
IRELAND.
The Repeal Association continues its labours and its activity, the notice
of the agitation in the Queen’s Speech at the close of the se: having
given an additional stimulus to its activity. On Monday last the repeal
rent of the previous week was announced to be 1,580/ 7s.4d. On Tuesday,
Mr O'Connell, with his characteristic energy, reviewed the Royal sy eech,
denouncing that part of it relating to Ireland, and concluded by sayin
“ Will all this stop the people of Ireland? (Cries of ‘No, no.
little of my countrymen if they would be arrested by such paltry depravity
—such miserable, snivelling policy as Ministers exhibited. (Cheers.)” ~
A great Protestant meeting has been announced to be held at Be
the 7th instant, the object of which is intended as a counteraction
repeal agitation. In reference to this meeting, Marqu
derry has addressed a very sensible letter to the Earl of Roden
him to withhold and warning
session
| know
a fast,
to the
London-
on
the ot
! , entreating
his sanction from it, him, from previous
experiments of a similar nature, not only of the risk of failure, but of the
danger of reviving religious discords in Ireland
Karl de Grey, the Lord Lieutenant, and Sir Edward Sugden, the Irish
Lord Chancellor, are at present both in England,
SCOTLAND
The vacancies in the Established Kirk of
up. The Rev. Mr Ferguson, of Inch, who had been expect
Scotland are rrar ually filling
d to join the
secession, Intimates a disposition to remain in the Establishment i
( bjc tions to the interfere ce of the civil « rts ( is y ad
being in the main removed by the Earl of Aberde: l, passed just
before the close of the session ;
“THe Free Cnurcn.”—-We are in ind undoubted
difficulties, and it is by a very obvious ‘ in them,
It is true that the reported amount, bx t and associational
donations, is upwards of 160,000/.; br llect« that more
than three-fourths of these, and more es] lly of the latter, is retained in
the localities within which they have been raised for the building of their
own churches, and not sent up to the Central Fund at all The truth is,
that the sum of 50,724/. 7s. 2d. is all that has been remitted to Edinburgh,
and that burdened, too, to such an extent with reservations in favour of
particular churches, that it were unwise to calculate on more than the free
amount of 30,0001, wherewith to aid the erection of churches in the poorer
6 TH
and more destitute localities of Scotland. It is in these circumstances that
the Building Committee do not feel themselves warranted to hold out more
than the allowance of 5s. a sitting to each church, and that only if built in
a stvle so economical as to cost not more than 15s. a sitting on the whole.
) the average accommodation of the churches which required this
aid to be 600 sittings, then each church would receive 150/.; and by 200
such churches the whole sum of 30,0001. would be exhausted.—Monthily
Siatement, just pr blishe hed * Thomas Chalmers.”
Sir James Colquhoun, in reply toa requisition from the Free Churchmen
in the parish of Luss, for a site on which a church in connexion with the
Suppose
d, and subser
in
Free Kirk might be erected, has granted their request. Lady Colquhoun
has subscribed 100, Miss Colquhoun 50/, and Sir James 501, in all 2002,
for the erection of a church in the vicinity.
The Earl of Roden has remitted through the hands of the Rey. Mr
lields, Newry, 10 the “ Building Fund of the Free Church.”
The herring fishery appears to have hitherto been very successful
WALES.
Rebe aites in Wales seem to have succeeded in two objec ts, that
their grievances. It
i
should be negle ted,
Ss) towards
Th
of demolishing toll-g: pad of calling attention to
condition of the
is a pity, certa y, that the 1d
until they start up to remind Government and the Legislature by taking
the means of remedy i their own hands. Insurrectionary moveme:
s behind them, like a smouldering fire, to break out again
pe opl
t<
always leave ev!
when least expected.
On Friday last there was a great meeting on Mynyd-Selen (the great
mountain), in Carmarthenshire, at which from 3,000 to 4,000 men, it is com-
puted, assembled to take into consideration the dreadfully depressed and
progressive deterioration of the people in the neighbourhood, with a view
to remedial steps—to specify the particular grievances which they
hardly felt—to make known their
and p eful The assembled multitudes were
colliers, farmers, and coal-dealers (many of the last-named class combine
both the occupations of sellers of coal and cultivators of the soil). The
place of meeting forms a division of a mountainous district, the popu-
lation of which is, for the most part, employed in, or connected with, the
it is situated about twelve miles from this town (Carmarthen
most
wishes in a legitimats
ch efly ope rative
wants and
manner
collieries ;
and six from Lanel
After various spee¢
itation to the
for presen
hes, in English and Welsh, a petition was adopted
Queen, setting forth the various grievances com-
pla ned of, as the turnpike-gates’ grievance, the poo law’s operation, and
that of the tithe con 1, Which is described as most onerous, unequal,
state connexion
country in
and distressed of the
Magisterial
with the increased amount of the county stock.
fines fall in, most justly too, for a share of censure. Rent follows—mea-
ed for, such as may at the same time render the condition of
and the cultivator easier; and the petition concludes in the
unjust; the present
costs and
sures are ¢
the lar
following very noticeabk
“ That the peti rs most humbly and earnestly implore her Majesty
to exercise t vugust p tive for the benefit of the
| present and to convoke a new Pa
terms :—
country, and
rerog
liament, with
direct s to conside the various grievances of the country nd as to
ameliorating the same lalso to devise meas to restore th é
pre ty of tl a he the demand / en t
tot yly—a course which would conduce to the prosperity of the whol
country, and your petitioners amongst the number. a
“Your Majesty’s petitioners earnestly entreat your Majesty to listen
graciously to their huml and they beg to tender to your
Majesty their humble assurances of their loyalty and fidelity to your
Majesty’s sacred pers ’
( ompiaints ;
m and to the constitution.’
GREAT FREE-T RAVE DEMONSTRATION LN
LIVERPOOL,
( 1} I d fri m the Liverp ol Mi rcury jy
One of the greatest, if not the greatest public demonstration ever mad
in Liverp« j r of free-track pri ciples, \ I le ¢ t} vel r of
W ednesd t, on 1 occasi or the re thly meeting of the
Liv po LA i-M | \ { I II ng st t I l é
the Mf ill. hut it } o bye ' 1 1 that
m f Durham, Jo! B t, Es ‘ it re
| ged I e bef th
5 1 to be*opened, the stre
is d I t li
t i the p iy ry, to
was I <ed in ever 1 r t
3 L icipally reserved for lies, and
1 charge of sixpence for admission, were quite filled
but not i ynveni tly »wded. I age was crami 1, although ther
was also acharge of sixpence for admission to that part of th Neve!
has it been our lot tos 1more numel or more enthusiastic meeting
Thousands were obliged to go away without obtainin, on, eithen
every availab corner of tl cay ious building was Even from
the ventilating apertul in the cent ; the e numbers of
individuals to be | ring uj l ly crowded
assembly below. The theatre w t banner
bann rets, ind free-t le devices
Abo st seven o'clock illiam Rathbone, Esq., entered the hou
and was received with the most enthusiastic cheering. He was followed
shortly afterwards by John Bright, Esq., M.P., who was welcomed with
deafening appla As soon as the cheering had subsided, James Mell
chair, which was
Esq., proposed that William Rathbone, Esq., take the
seconded by Lawrence Heyworth, Esq., and carried by acclamation
The Chairman, who was warmly received, addressed the meeting, aft
which Mr John Smith, in an effective speech, propos d the first res
which was as follows :—
all classes of the community have long
“That, as the distress 5
suffering, and the exemplary pati with which it has been «
have been fully acknowledged by her Majesty’s Ministers, this meeting
sires to record their extreme dissatisf that ano of
ment has been permitted to ci thnout a singte ttempt t
re! iv: al 1 +) j HeMantinn ia ag rwated by tl Low led
fact that such guilty neg! 1 just | t the ¢
ignorance on the hand, nor t t ( nthe other; |
wi constantly vledging the truth of the principles of fre¢
2 1 poss | i y ty hotl Houses of Parliamer
M sty’s Vi isters stl mntinue to sacrif I national pri )
yrtsi ted tem oi
BC 2} ts
Jal ution, which was then put by
Not
upport ri
held up in its favour
th che irl man, and literally a forest
one was extended in opposition, and it was declared as passed unanimously
| Esq., cousidered himself particularly fortwuate in haying
E ECONOMIST. [September 2,
to propose a resolution which needed no recommendation from him, and
which only required to be read to ensure its adoption. It was:—
“That the Anti-Corn-law League, by their energetic and unwearicd
exertions in proving to the community generally, and especially to the
agriculturists, the evils of the so-called protective system, have well earned
the gratitude of their countrymen; and this meeting testify their high
gratification in being honoured by the presence of John Bright, Esq., &
distinguished member of that body, and, thanking him most earnestly for
his past exertions, rejoice that his sphere of usefulness is enlarg: d by his
triumphant election of the city of Durham.”
That was the resolution he had to propose, and all he begged was, that
they would reflect a little upon it. Just let them consider what effect the
election of John Bright for the city of Durham must necessarily have upon
the community at large,—on the great change which had taken place in
that city,—a change which was rapidly spreading throughout the country,
a change which would soon place the representatives of the people in the
House of Commons in the position from which they ought never to haye
been removed. (Loud cheers.)
Christopher Rawdon, Esq., most sincerely wished that he could add any-
thing in the way of novelty or strength to the arguments adduced in fayour
of the cause which they were assembled to support, but as he could not do
so, he would content himself with most cordially seconding the resolution.
The Chairman then put the resolution, and declared it to be carried
unanimously. A gentleman near the chair having said he thought he saw
one hand held up against it, the Chairman put the question again, but
the imaginary solitary dissentient did not appear in all the immense
assemblage.
John Bright, Esq., M.P., then rose, and his reception was most enthu-
siastic. When the repeated rounds of cheering had subsided, he ad-
dressed the audience in his able and eloquent style, dwelling with great
point on topics similar to those urged in the Preliminary Number of
Tue Economist, touching on coffee, wool, &c., and then
addressed himself to the question ot the opinions of the Liverpool
constituency. He knew that the 10/. householders of Liverpool were
in favour of free trade. (Hear, hear.) He would not make a speech
on party politics—he would not say a
sugar,
word of any the
representative of any constituency whatever, on any ground whatever,
against free trade. The 10/. householders of Liver-
pool declare in favour of free trade if an election took
morrow morning. (Great cheering.) But their borough had been handed
over, bound hand and foot, to the monopolists, by that portion of the
electors who were themselves the greatest sufferers by this system—men
who first crushed by it, and who would be plunged into the
intensest suffering unless this system were abolished. (Hear, hear.) He
had a right to speak to freemen. He was almost going to say that he had
no claim to sit in Parliament, except as the representative of the freemen
and working classes of the city of Durham. (Great cheering.) He had
canvassed them over and over, and over again. They had always been
asked to vote for either red or for blue, he believed that was the other
colour,—they had always voted for either Whig or Tory without thinking
that it was of any sort of consequence to them what sort of opinions were
held by the one or the other. But he had sat with them in their cottages ;
he saw them taking their breakfast and their tea; he showed them how
monopoly robbed them of their coffee and sugar, and of bread and butter for
he showed them how stonemasons, shoemakers, ¢ arpenters,
their children;
and every kind of artisan suffered if the trade of the country were restr ted;
he showed them that if their fam
and trade did not increase, those who had no property but their labour, who
suffered most; he showed them how the
man as
except as being for or
would lace to-
were the
reased, if the population increased,
11e€S ine
work or must starve,
must have
tition for labour thus created reduced the rate of wages; he
flerce ‘
showedthem thatthe foul fic
ompe
nd of monopoly stood upon, and had been called
1 the law of England,—that law which they by their con-
duct at former elections had assisted to make,—and he proved to them that
that fiend deprived them of one-third or one-half of the miserable pittance
party speech at
of wages that th They never
that election; the words fr and Dory were never used; they talked of
, of tl under
i » existence by
y earned made a single
Wi!
tre wvie—of the rights of industry, of the trampling the poor
the hoof of m« 0} \ thelr was no sinister interest there, no West
I V7] here—tl ] r only to depend upon ; they
Ww | st men and had i when their intelligence and
t sympathics were t ip} was not possible for all the
i la ‘ the influer f the rich and the powerful, to prevent
them from voting for man of whom they knew nothing excepting as
CO ted with the Anti-Corn-law League, and as an advocate for the
al tion of all monopolies Great cheering.) He wished that all the
freen of Live pool were then present at that meeting; he would stay
till twelve o’clock at night—nay, he would stay till twelve o'clock
ight to discuss with them all points connected with this great,
- he wished he could have one shake of the hand with the whole
body of the freemen of ] iverpool There was no class of people tor whom
he had so sincere a sympathy as for those who lived by their labour, well
knowing that the effects of bad laws must come into every cottage, and
that good laws would send some shine and some comfort to every
cottage and to every heart in the land. (Much cheer ing.) ‘There was no
working classes but the aboli-
>and which bound down an
distress amongst the
ted
remedy for the ex
tion of those laws which restric their trad
increasing population to restrict
food. At an¢ lection, he called upon them to think no more of party,
which was but a miserable bone of thrown them to
l ‘act their attention, whilst body else was running away with all
was glad to see that la
Parliament.
ther ‘
contention amongst
it was worth contending for. le t session had
The ministry
destroyed the adherence to party ob,
had found out that by strict adherence to their party they could do not!
on the one hand they found that 1f they attempted to do
much for the people, their party would forsake them,—on the other, that
if they adhered strictly to party objects they could not withstand the
The Whig party dared not march with their
that
jects in
lig
for the pe ople :
op] osition of the pe ople.
principles they had been the most powerless opposition evel
confronted a government ; they knew what the people wanted; but
ichow her there wa v cli ng to aristocratic prejudice 3; and
re Mr B ht) told tl peopl that they had nobods to rely upon
but } selyve lear, | ) Tell him that Whig or ‘T or any
iris racy could England! J is a ft h 1 hopel
tale \ i t 1 l I n con i n
n | | ch I . , )
ls only me by t Le her by the vote He had nothing
< h ¢ rd Pak \ the st mig | ved
vithout 1 them t k o he the vote of the woi ig
man was as good the man who owned a county Hear, hear.) Le
iot the working man think himself merely an atom in the political
nachine ; his « ne vote might turn the election for Liverpool, and the one
vote for Liverpool might destroy for eyer this odious corn law. (Great
ted employment and an insufficient supply of
my
THE ECONOMIST
cheering.) When he thought what Liverpool was, —what it would be if
this law were abolished, he was anxious that that night should not —_
away without producing some effect. When he thought of their no le,
their exulting river, he saw in it a source of great and increasing pros-
perity. A friend of his left this river on the 4th of this month, and in
twenty-five days be had a letter from him from Halifax, Nova Scotia ; in
six hours they cou'd travel from London to Boulogne ; and was it to be
tolerated, that a people who could effect such wonders as these should
submit any longer to such an imbecile system as that of monopoly?
(Loud cheers.) ‘alk not of the continuance of such a childish and
wicked system,—a system to which there was no parallel in any age or
nation. (Continued cheering.) ‘The people of Egypt, who built pyra-
mids to last till the end of time, were a people so ignorant and imbecile
as to worship monkeys: why the people of Liverpool bore some resem~
blance to the people of Egypt in that. (Much laughter and cheering.)
If he were an inhabitant of Liverpool he should be ashamed to acknow-
ledge in foreign countries that he belonged to it, for the people of
Liverpool did something as absurd as the worshipping of monkeys. ‘I hey
did things to endure for ages,—they had led the world in many a grand
career,—and yet they bowed down to this miserable creature monopoly,
compared with which the monkey of the Egyptians was indeed a god,
(Great cheering.) He asked them on behalf of the people of Rochdale,
who sent their produce through the port of Liverpool, who imported their
cotton and their wool through the port of Liverpool,—he asked them, on
behalf of that industrious population, amongst whom he lived, to vote for
the abolition of the corn laws; and on behalf of that constituency who
had entrusted him with the representation of their city, because he came
fearlessly amongst them to advocate the abolition of all monopolies, on
their behalf, and on behalf of the suffering people of this country, and on
behalf of the great principles of justice and humanity all the world over,
and on behalf of that Christianity for which they professed to be willing
to make some sacrifices,—he called upon them to think on this question,
and having thought upon it to decide, and give their voices and their
votes in favour of the abrogation of the worst law that any human legisla-
ture ever passed to the misery and misfortune of any people.—The Hon.
Gentleman resumed his seat amidst enthusiastic and prolonged acclama-
tions, having spoken exactly an hour and twenty minutes.
The Chairman said, that after what they had heard, and they had heard
a great deal, the next thing was to go and remember what they had heard,
and act upon it. The meeting was now dissolved, and he felt proud in
seeing such an assembly as the one before him that evening; one so well
conducted, and free from any of that clap-trap by which they had been so
often allured. He trusted they would remember what they had heard
and act upon it.
A vote of thanks to the Chairman was then moved by Mr Charles
Edward Rawlins, jun., which was put to the meeting and carried.
The Chairman briefly returned thanks for the honour conferred upon
him, and hoped that the people of Liverpool would show, not only in
word, but in deed, that which would tell on the next generation and on
children yet unborn.
Three cheers having been given for Mr Cobden, and the same for Mr
Bright, the meeting separated at a quarter to ten o’clock.
Anti-Monoroty Meetirnac at NewTon-IN-THE-WiLLows.--A large
meeting, attended by about 300 persons, many of them farmers, was held
in the village of Newton-in-the- Willows, on Tuesday evening last, the
Rev. Mr Massie in the chair. Mr C. E. Rawlins, jun., addressed the
meeting on behalf of the objects of the Anti-Monopoly Association. A
free-trade resolution was carried unanimously.
Free-Trave Festivan at Bury.—A great Free-Trade Festival was
held at Bury, on Thursday, in a pavilion erected for the purpose in
Paradise street, in honour of Mr Bright’s return for Durham. It was one
of the largest meetings of the kind ever held in Bury, upwards of one
thousand persons being present. Richard Walker, Esy., M.P., took the
chair, and on his right was John Bright, Esq., M.P., and on his left Jos.
Brotherton, Esq., M.P. Among the other gentlemen present were Alder-
man Brooks, Mr. R. R. Moore, the Rev. J. W. Massie, the Rev. Franklin
Howorth, and many of the leading merchants and manufacturers of Bury.
MOVEMENTS OF THE ANTI-CORN-LAW LEAGUE
The Anti-Bread- Tax Circular, the well-known organ of the Anti-Corn-
law League, gives the following summary view of the movements of
THE LEAGUE AMONGST THE FARMERS.
The county meetings having been suspended during the harvest, we
have no fresh rural triumph for our present number; but it may not be
amiss to take a retrospective glance at the progress of our agitation in
the agricultural districts during the late session of parliament. The time
is doubly appropriate for such a review, inasmuch as the labours of the
League, and the toils of the session, have been prorogued together.
Deputations from the League have visited eighteen counties, in which
twenty-two meetings have been held. We subjoin a list:
Counties Place of Meeting. | Counties. Placeof Meeting.
Bedfordshire ‘ Bedford. | Kent (2 mectings) . Canterbury.
Berkshire . ‘ Reading. | Lincolnshire ° . Lincoln,
Buckinghamshire . Aylesbury. | Middlesex , ‘ . Uxbridge,
Dorsetshire . ¢ . Dorset. | Norfolk é ; . Norwich.
Essex (2 meetings) . Colchester. | Somersetshire . - Taunton.
” ‘ ‘ . Chelmsford. | Suffolk. ‘ a - Bury St
Hampshire . ‘ . Winchester, | Edmunds,
Herefordshire. . Hereford. | Surrey (2 meetings) . Guildford.
Hertfordshire ‘ . Hertford Da z a . Croydon.
Huntingdonshire - Huntingdon,! Sussex (2 meetings) . Rye.
Kent (2 meetings) .Penenden | ,, ‘ ‘ ° . Lewes.
Heath. ' Wiltshire . ° Salisbury.
_ The course pursued in calling these meetings has, we believe, been
invariably the same, From a fortnight to three weeks’ notice has been
given throughout the county, by advertisement in the local papers, by
placards posted in all the towns and villages within twenty miles of the
place of meeting, and by handbills distributed to the farmers visiting the
principal markets. Hustings have been erected in the most convenient
public place sufficiently spacious to accommodate all who desired to take
a part in the proceedings, and the most influential landowner present has
been always preferred for chairman. With a view to giving the widest
and most correct publicity to the proceedings, able r po ters
, who have
have invaria-
bly accompanied the deputation from London taken down the
speeches verbatim, which have en printed and systematically distributed
by the agents of the League throughout every parish in the county.
Newport, Isuz or Wrantr.—The members for this borough and island
have this week received perhaps the most significant notice to quit which
has yet been given them, On Saturday evening one of the most numerous
meetings we have had in this district assembled in the Council Chamber
to hear an address from Mr Siducy Smith, on the subject of the Cora
Laws. We observed many of the most respectable inhabitants of the
borough present, and that they had brought their wives and daughters
with them. On the motion of Mr Dunkin, John Cooke was unanimously
called to the chair.—Mr Cooke stated, that although the choice of the
meeting might have fallen upon an abler chairman, it could not have
selected one more convinced of the necessity of regenerating the country
by emancipating its industry from the shac kles which were bringing it to
decay. (Hear.) To the National Anti-Corn-law League (cheers) the
country was indebted for the most patriotic exertions, and the most
untiring assiduity. (Cheers.) One of its oldest representatives, and ablest
speakers, was now before them, and he would no longer interpose between
them and the instructive address which he was confident they would
hear. (Cheers.)—Mr Sidney Smith on rising was welcomed with applause,
and delivered an address of two hours and a half. Some interruption was
anticipated from the Chartists, but if any “came to scoff,” they re mained
to praise. The speaker had every reason to congratulate himselt upon
the most favourable reception.—The Reverend Edmund Kell stated, that
the course of political instruction which the Anti-Corn-law League
afforded to the nation, was fraught with the most precious results, and
entitled that noble body to the most strenuous and universal support.
(Loud cheers.) Much valuable truth had been imparted to them by
their esteemed friend Mr Smith (hear, hear), and he now rose to propose
to him a vote of thanks, which was carried with loud cheers.—The Chair-
man, in putting the motion, said, that Mr Smith’s address had convinced
him that the Anti-Corn-law League were instructing the community,
not merely on a branch of political economy, but on the entire elements
of wise legislation. (Hear, hear.) They had that night heard Christianity
beautifully applied to the great business of public life (cheers), and
practical law making measured by the standard of truth and justice. The
motion was unanimously carried, and three cheers for the League.
ALREsSFoRD.—On Monday evening Mr Sidney Smith visited this lo-
cality. His address was announced to be delivered at the Market-room
of the Bell Inn, on the evils of the Corn Laws. The room was crowded
long before the time appointed for the de livery of the lecture, and the
clamouring for admission by those who were not so fortunate as to succeed
in getting in, became so great, that it became necessary to adjourn into
the street, where the meeting was addressed by Mr Smith, who took hig
place at the window of the Bell Inn, Many respectable townsmen and
ladies stood in the streets to hear the learned gentleman’s address, thus
manifesting the interest felt by them in the question,
AGRICULTURE.
ARnRIvALs oF Foreran Carrier, &c.—The following return embraces
a period of about nine months of the present year. There scems but
little reason for any panic amongst our agriculturists from foreign com-
petition. Duty paid under the new tariff to last week this year :—
Cattle. Sheep. Pigs.
London 4° Goes «2 2 e 7 « e 6
Liverpool. . « « « « « 200 e 6 94 a 19
i a ee e 6 e 4 30
Southampton .... . 128 ee 0 . 8 0
512 107 55
Acricunturat Sratrstics.—“ We cannot deny,” says the National,
“ whatever be the causes which paralyse the progress of our agriculture,
that our produce is much inferior to that of the English. The f
is a comparison of the agricultural produce raised by one thousand fami~
lies in France and England :—
In England.
llowing
In France. Difference.
Horses ele 273 ao « 65 . . four times less,
Oxon . . . 1,930 ‘ 903 six times less.
Sheep $6 « 11,000 1,045 . ten times less.
Corn 56,000 hectolitres. 40,000 hectolitres.
In France, it is calculated that on every thousand square yards of
ground there are thirty-three cultivators: in England, only twent eight
}
Our agricultural produce ought, therefore, to be at least « jual to that
England; and our inferiority consequently proves the want of
amongst the French agriculturists.”—Le Siecle observes that the results
of the statistics published by the Minister of Agricultt ind of Com-
merce demonstrate, that during the year 1841 there has] ported
into France 22,434,000f. worth of live cattle, 91,889,000f. worth of a nal
matter (hides, wool, and tallow); total, 114,523,000f. The exports having
| amounted to only 15,000,000f., it appears that France has paid 99 oof.
for foreign ultural produce during the year 1841
Repuction oF Rents.—The Duke of Hamilton has caused a reduction
of ten per cent. to be made on the rents of his tenants o 3 es in
| Lancashire. Sir John Lowther, at his recent audit, made a return of ten
| per cent. to the whole of his farm tenant
How ro Ostarn LARGE Crops oF WaHeat.—What would some far-
Ly, if proposed to hoe out }
we do turnips? and yet whoever |
mers 8% we
apart,
wheat of seven or eight quarters per acre, will |}
the wheat plants to t hes or
more 1s 3 examined crop ot
sisted
root,
ive seen that it
of tufts of ten or fifteen stems, each proceeding from one coron
and that such plants required nearly a square foot of ground to
weak, and but sn ears;
|
If they are crowded, the side stems are eal .
but, if they have sufficient room, all the stems are of equal height, and
} }
ill,
rrow
all ears equally large: this, besides a heavy crop, produces an equal sam-
ple, which is more valuable in the market. The practice of dibbling the
wheat, which is found so useful in Norfolk and Suffolk, leaves proper
intervals between the plants, which can be hoed; and depositing the seed
at a proper depth insures the formation of roots beyond the influence of
a hot and dry sun. The great fault of the dibblers is, that they put too
many seeds in each dibble hole: if the seed is good, three or four grains,
at most, are sufficient; of these one or two only will take the lead, and
form the tuft; the others will be overpowered by the more vigorous.
When land is well prepared, half a bushel of seed is an ample allowance
for an acre; the rows being at nine inches from each other, and the dibble
+h r¢
holes at the same distance in the ws. This allows of
+ }
and hoeing of the intervals, and the complete destri
Gardeners’ Chronic fe,
perfect stirring
ym of weeds,
Successrut Husspanpry.—The Rey. Mr Gillespie, minister of Cummer-
trees, planted in spring, a week or so earlier than usual, cre of potatoes,
after as careful a selection of seed as possible. Previousls had ided
| a Winchester bushel of beans. When t ills w
| spread, and the seed laid in, a bean was placed between ev
| sets; and this task performed, he had nearly a half of tl S
which he distributed among the neighbouri! ottagers,
dation to try the same experiment. The beans, as may be suppos vere
first above ground; and as they had made some head bef tend
different kind appeared, they protected the potatoes during the earlier part
THE ECONOMIST. eptember 2
of the season, and proved a special shelter during the cold weather | in May.
At topping time the stalks stood four feet high, and are so rich in well-
formed pods, that the grower confidently reckons on a crop of pulse worth
at ten pounds sterling. The blooming tubers have thriven in pro-
portion, and at reaping time the acre of — thus cropped will prove
the productive ever cultivated on the glebe of Cummertrees. The
eee uts of the cottagers proved equally successful; and, in submitting
the above statement, as verbally communicated by the rev. gentleman on
Lock« ots hill, we trust that it is one that will not be thrown away on the
public.— Du njrves Ci
least
most
urier.
CORRESPONDENCE AND ANSWERS TO INQUIRIES,
We regret that the great pressure of matter in this number has ren-
dered it necessary to leave out several articles prepared for it, especially
on Economical Science and Agriculture.
We have received a number of applications respecting Agents for THE
Economist in the various towns of the country. We have no present in-
tention of appointing Agents, as our frie nds can be re ‘gularly and promptly
supplied through any metropolitan or provincial Bookseller or Newsvender
with whom they are in the habit of dealing. Or orders may be sent direct
to the Offic Tue Economist, addressed to the Publisher, who will
hand them to respectable Newsyenders, through whom they will be regu-
larly supplied.
Many letters have mredin Upon US since the “ Pre liminary Number” of THE
Economist, some of which have been from agric ultural friends, kindly and en-
cou 7) to us, strikingly indicative of the great chanae
gow Lan ural constituencies. The following letter is from
a pla honest orthumberland farmer :—
*‘ Northumberland, 29th of August, 1843.
Sir,—A friend having } the specimen number of Tue Economist into my |
han I cannot refrain fror ffering my hearty approval of a design which will, |
nay \ \ f so venefit to the community at large. Although only a |
hu ‘ I like my brethren, alive to those attempts of the |
Le p ag? ral interest, which have given rise to so much |
discuss tisfa I pted to form an opinion for myself, and found |
that t i ght smattering of political economy, and by making | «
myse ! i witl few « he leading truths of the sci¢nce of wealth, I soon saw |
not he im cy of restrictive Corn Laws, but also the reason of their utter |
ine ( v e ignorant prejudices of the men who w them- |
° i
é lr I am, therefore, convinced, that if any |
I I make } fa with the doctrines of Smith, the
tf fr t 1 at he will at once perceive the absurdity and |
f f pr to a ing in reajity nothing but making an article
Ss i Le é acting contrary to common sense, when thousands
are ¢ by veries, making commodities of every descrip-
ti ape nd e € et ry person, and thus increase the wealth,
comfort, a he s y which fully adopts the ~_ e Trade system;
in fa 11 ieory, if carried fully « as most assuredly ruin-
ry ¢ wl so fi as t late D2 oul 1 palpable errors,—
Ww t is in breaking up all machinery al employing manual labour
ir pro t] es which now do not require one .-tenth of the work, as
t \ s work ?—would it not warrant the statesman in :
‘ t produce, and even attem to grow in |
ol n, ar, tl g t a hundred times the cost?—na |
not ce fa ct th l esort to the worst, as yi ess
for labour : n ( é al i zy the wealth of the c meets?
**T find I i f progres ongst men of business is the |}
cont V ) tood the sense generally attached
to 1 of r l n f the school ;—take, for in
stance W 2 ys attach the meaning of the commercial theory |
of f é 1ers are still h axpine zy upon the effects of
af r foreig ) take the gold out of the country and
leave Y l t be based upon the commercial
and a pose Smit
| t su i thing Lut ger al
‘ . » prosperit ipd har and
| I gt er espe ng |
the vent ; |
ee |
Har 1 had 2 ies as t r opinions respecting the policy of an \
a vediat uate a of the ciples f Free Trade, we have
7 hesita stat t f the mgest conviction that commercial
changes ‘ f l t the least inconvenience to l parties, u hen
made decide ( f , ai that gradual or delayed cl ges only tend |
to pr oa th é and 7 equently to realise, by ant pation, diffi-
/ j i t an ¢ pportunity of explaining our
ith ch it deserves
I ] toN. O l } ) ef? ng are the quantities of wheat im- |
j ; I ¢ if j tion in the United Kingdom, in the first
Ss ;
1 Delivered for consumption
T j 223
i 7 614
A 846
1,532
: * 7
) 1.978 ; |
7 ]
— siedadmic
Tot 185,672 12,527
In re io E.. & Co Le the entire import of fle this year up to the 5th
of A ,hasl 774,659 cwts. against 608,111 cewts for the same period
of 5 7 f n manufactures, for the first seven months
to 1,645,9701 1,463,484/ 1842
or ee ( 1 {yt f last Treaty of Comme th
tf? gs, th a t ch in be leqaliy
he subject to the same rates of dut whether
th thre ru “t>
} ] fy or t ther « try: and A le
s j ] lint uni ? honded: and
if ; f 7 J tion « take
j ‘ f t/ ‘ s / spect, and
P ( i 7 j h # I t} ate / lut
{ p, va 17 n the duty in the tariff, |
¢ / 1? ) ) e ra i fizved duty;
? franc, ¢ f gel il additional duty,
{ is 1 general duty—t
f
k 5 pa 2 0
‘ 0 39
) ( 2
) ~ i4
a ie a7 . , ;
Or about 1s. 5d. sterling—A_ scheffle of wheat in Wurtemberg is equal to
f four-fifths Winchester bushels,
. * *
POSTSCRIPT.
LONDON, Saturday Morning, September 2, 1843.
Stock ExcuAncE, TWELVE 0’cLocK.
There is little change to-dayin our markets, and no new feature in foreign
or English stocks, except that Consols are nominally a trifle higher, being
95 to 954, having left off yesterday at 94% to 95.
The last intelligence respecting the movements of her Majesty, left her
and her Royal consort visiting Weymouth, Plymouth, and Fs almouth. The
Royal yatht is probably to-day, Saturday, crossing the channel, her Majesty
being expected to arrive at the Chateau d’Eu on this evening, or on Sun-
day. The correspondent of the Morning Chronicle describes the C hateau
d’Eu situated on the river Bresle, close to, or rather within, the small
but very ancient town of Eu, and on the borders of Normandy. It is at the
distance inland of twomilesfrom the small fishing village of Treport, a place,
the very existence of which may be unknown to many of our countrymen,
who consider themselves by no means badly informed on most subjects.
But this obscure place is to acquire such a notoriety by the casual visit of
a Queen of England, as will make it for ages to come as familiar to every
Englishman as household words. The Chateau d’Eu, in its appearance,
certainly comes within the nomenclature of “fantastic,” for it has high
roofs, pinnacles, enormous chimneys, and other excrescences, which do not
accord with the architecture of modern palaces, but which still are not
without beauty and pleasing effect. The building itself is of considerable
extent, and its principal front handsome and imposing. In approaching it
from Abbeville, as I did, every one must be struck with admiration, both
of the beauty of the structure and its charming situation, surrounded as it
is with woods and green fields, and in the immediate neighbourhood of the
| picturesque town of Eu, and the tranquil river below.
The notice just issued by the Bank of England, with the settled appear-
ance of fine weather, lead to the conclusion that the present abundance of
money will continue. The Bank of England has given notice that loans
will be given as formerly on bills having not more than six months to run,
| on Exchequer-bills, and East India Bonds, to be repaid with interest at
the rate of three per cent., against the 19th of October next, for sums not
than 2,000/. each. Besides this low rate of usage for loans, more
capital is said to be in the market for investment on account of the pay-
ment of the opium claims, which amount to about 1,200,000/., and in a few
weeks hence the October dividends will come in course of payment, still
increasing the glut of money, and tending to keep the rates of interest
very low. In the midst of all this plethora of money in London, poverty
and distress form the general complaint from the provinces, and while
money is to be obtained by persons in good credit, at rates not exceeding
two per cent., there is a class of economists, who prescribe an issue of
paper as the remedy for the difficulties of the country.
The Marquis of Londonde rry’s letter to the Earl of Roden has had the
desired effect of inducing an abandonment of the intended Protestant
Anti-Repeal Demonstration at Belfast.
less
The Leeds Mercury of this morning inse erts an extract from the letter of
a London corre sponde nt in the following terms :—*“ London, 30th August,
1843.—We have it from first-rate authority that the Duke of Palmella
has come to this country without any powers to negotiate a treaty as
unwisely reported.” Our correspondent speaks of P aime lla as “a deep
diplomatist and intriguer, who is only beating the bush.” As, in another
part of the Economist, we have made a different statement, our esteemed
contemporary must excuse us for being disposed to rely on our authority
rather than that of its metropolitan correspondent, who, we believe, has
been misinformed.
The extensive sales of cotton at Liverpool excite much attention here,
as indicating either a very decided improvement in trade or reviving spe-
culation.
The average price of Wheat was such on Thursday as to reduce the
duty to 14s. per quarter. It seems probable that the duty will continue
the same for at least a fortnight, as it is not likely that the next weekly
average will be below the average of the week, which will be then struck
off in making the six weeks’ average.
Liverroot, Frrmay Nicut.—Cotton: the demand “seems to increase
rather than abate; the sales have been during the week, 63,130 bags,
making an aggregate, in three weeks, of 158,930 bags; 27,800 American,
and 2,000 Madras have been taken on speculation, and 1,450 American,
400 Peonams, and 300 Surat, for export this week.
Tak n for Export
for ( ‘consumption 2 whole Import.
Ist Jan. to Ist Sept. Ist Jan. to Ist Sept. Ist Jan. to Ist Sept.
1842. 1843. 1842. 1843 1842. 1843.
770,000 * 893,500 64,300 62,100 993,165 1,322,339
Average weekly quantity taken
Computed Stock. for . ,
Consumer s use,
Ist September. “Ist Jan. to Ist Sept.
1842. 1843 1842, 1843.
588,000 871,500 22,090 25,634
Sugar continues very dull. Tea: a fair demand throughout the
week. Jndigo: nothing reported. Shell Lac: a better demand, and little
Grain sales of
demand, at
offering. : the market has become very flat, and to effect
wheat and oats lower prices must taken. Flour, in some
former prices.
be
The French papers are so occupied with the anticipated meeting of
Louis Philippe and her Majesty as not to notice an interview which has
just taken place between other Sovereigns in the castle of Aschaffenburg.
King Leopold of Belgium visited and dined with his Majesty of Bavaria,
and the monarchs spent the evening in amicable converse. The King of
the Belgians is anxious to have the
kingdom allowed more advantageous entrance
The Prussian Rhenish provinces are thos«
But it would be much for the advantage
without producil these commodities,
open. This supposed to be the chief
Bavaria
The news from Madrid is solely relating to military promotions and’pre-
paratory meetings for the comu The parliamentary party,
which affected the last revolution, successful in the approaching
: struggle.
iron and woollen manufactures of his
into the German Union.
jealous of the Belgians.
of South Germany, which con-
if the market were more
obje ct of King Leopold’s visit to
most
sumes, ly BR
is
gr elec tions.
will be
The authorities of Madrid are engaged in adopting measures calculated
to insure tranquillity
The Queen and her sister are greatly pleased with their residence at La
Granja.
Mr Aston will leave Madrid on the Ist of September.
InELAND.—Mr Howley, the assistant barrister for Tipperary, and a Ro-
man Catholic, has been appointed to the third Serjeantcy, vacant by the
eleyation of Mr Keatinge to the judgeship of the Prerogative Court.
1843.]
Cuance or Times, &c.—Among the hills the owners of woolly stock
complain that lambs, dinmonts, and gimmers are falling in price at a period
when rents are higher than ever; while such as fold the bleaters on tur-
nips shake their heads and say—* that breeding’s a surer trade than feed-
ing, as the best of us chance to en to our cost.” All the world are aware
of the marked difference between buying and selling, or, in other words,
the antagonist forces self-interest introduces into every market; and, in
conversing the other day with a clergyman on these and other matters, he
related the following anecdote of his uncle, one of the old stock of Ettrick
Forest :—About sixty years ago a worthy man, whose orbears for genera-
tions had rented lands under the bold Buccleuch, drove his lambs to St
Boswell’s fair, or, as it was then called, “ Boswell’s on the green.” Buyers
were not wanting, but even then, as now, they universally liked lucky
bargains; and the highest price offered to one of the acquaintances of
Dandie Dinmont for the castings of his carefully tended ewes was two-and-
twenty pence per head. This he considered an “ unco wee price ;” and,
although the lambs had travelled a distance of twenty miles, he determined
on re-driving rather than take it--a wearisome march and counter-march
for tiny trotters, less accustomed to hard roads than the velvet sward of a
green hill-side. After an interval allowed for rest and refreshment, he
pext turned his attention to the Langholm July fair; but, ou reaching that
lovely locality found, as often encugh happens, that he had realised the
proverb by “travelling farther and faring worse.” But, as expenses were
accumulating, there was no remead, and, accordingly, he struck a bargain
at five groats per lamb, gifting an odd one to every twenty, or as shepherds
say, making delivery by the clad score.—Dumfries Courier.
Britisu AssociATiIoN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF Scrence.—On the
termination of the proceedings at Cork, it was resolved, that the next
meeting should be held in September, 1844, at York. The following
noblemen and gentlemen were appointed honorary officers of the Asso-
ciation for 1844:—President, The Very Rev. George Peacock, D.D., Dean
of Ely.— Vice-Presidents, Earl Fitzwilliam, F.R.S.; Lord Morpeth; John
Stuart Wortley, Esq., M.P.; Sir David Brewster, F.R.S. ; Michael Fara-
day, Esq., LL.D.; and the Hon. and Rev. W. V. Harcourt, F.R.S.—Locual
Secretaries, William Hadfield, Esq., F.G.S.; Thomas Meynell, Esq., F.L.S. ;
Rev. William Scoresby, D.D., F.R.S.; William West, Esq.—Local Trea-
surer, William Gray, Esq., F.G.S.—General Secretaries, RK. 1, Murchison,
Esq., F.R.S; Lieut.-Colonel Sabine, F.R.S.—Assistant Ge neral Secretary,
Professor John Philips, F.R.S.—General Treasurer, John Taylor, Esq.,
F.R.S. Amongst the council for 1844 are two of our townsmen, James
Heywood, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S.; and Eaton Hodgkinson, Esq., F.R.S.
WHAT MAY BE DONE BY INDUSTRY, ACTIVITY, AND INTELLIGENCE.—
Mr Charles Bianconi, a gentleman exceedingly well known in Ireland, is
an Italian by birth, and was originally a travelling hawker. Having saved
a little money, and feeling, in the course of his travels, the want of means
of conveyance in the south of Ireland, he started a humble vehicle, and
ultimately succeeded in establishing a vast concern, as creditable to him-
self as beneficial to his adopted country. Personally he is an exceedingly
amiable and affable man. At the recent meeting at Cork of the British
Association he read a paper relative to his extensive coach and car establish-
ments, of which the following contains the most curious facts :—* In July,
1815, I started a car for the conveyance of passengers from Clonmel to
Cahir, which I subsequently extended to Tipperary and Limerick; at the
end of the same year I started similar cars from Clonmel to Cashel and
Thurless, and from Clonmel to Carrick and Waterford, and I have since
extended this establishment, including the most isolated localities, namely,
from Longford to Ballina and Belmullet, which is 201 miles north-west of
Dublin; from Athlone to Galway and Clifden, 183 miles due west of Dub-
lin; from Limerick to Tralee and Cahirciveen, 233 miles south-west of
Dublin, and numbering 110 vehicles; including mail coaches and different
sized cars, capable of carrying from four to twenty passengers each, and
travelling eight or nine miles an hour, at an average fare of one penny
farthing per mile for each passenger, and performing daily 3,800 miles,
passing through over 140 stations for the change of horses, consuming
3,000 to 4,000 tons of hay, and from 30,000 to 40,000 barrels of oats annually,
all of which are purchased in their respective localities. There were 1 40
stations, and each station had from one groom to six, or even eight; there
were somewhere about 110 drivers, and the horses were about 1,300. The
rate of travelling was from about eight to nine miles an hour, including
stoppages,
2 RI RR NI
THE WORLD IN MINIATURE.
Truc or false, there is a sublimity in the speculations of geologists
which fascinates the imagination. They tell us of successive forma-
tions of the crust of the earth; of long periods, during which repeated,
renewed, and wholly different races of creatures basked in the sun-
shine, or preyed in the waters; and of successive revolutions subverting
all that had pre-existed, and all leading, through a sort of eternity in
time, to the grand result of the world as it now is, inhabited by the
human race.
[t may be very fanciful: but the moral and social progress of the
human race seems to bear some resemblance to these geological specu-
lations. For there are those amongst us, who, amid doubt, discourage-
ment, decayed enthusiasm, and even chilling sneer, still cling to the
belief, that a better, a higher, a nobler destiny still awaits the family
of man. Not an imaginary perfectibility, not a visionary millennium,
not such a change of the organic structure, body and mind, as would
make the human being other than he is. But man as he is, in many
respects helpless, in much imperfect, and in all feeble, when viewed
individually, is still capable of a social elevation such as society has not
yet beheld. Christianity is to be the prime agent of the change. Its
divine truths, thoroughly pervading th atmosphere of public opinion;
working upon all thought, updn all mind, upon all education; calling
to their aid the wondrous resources of science, and all the appliances
of art; gradually, from generation to gencration, elevating the common
standard of morals and of knowledge; and achieving the prime result
of making NUMAN Law subservient to the prime object of ministering
to the best interests of humanity:
/ these are capable—perfectly capabl
—of changing man as he is, into man as he ought to be: and to this
end wait all whom the 1} yustle of the world has not yet rendered in i-
ble of reflection, nor its ¢ orruptions and disappointments rendered j1-
» 3} 2 y - . -
sensible to those generous emotions which animated their younger years.
ml . °
hese men are not disheartened by appearances, which, to su
observers, would seem to indicate that man, so far
sometimes retrograding; >?
perficial
from advancing, is
and that the human race is, after all, much
the same f-om age to age, merely different in external characteristics.
They can see a Cromwell, the type of daring and courageous usurpa-
tion, succeeded by a Charles, the concentration of selfish profanity
and disgusting profligacy, and yet not lose their faith in the conviction
THE ECONOMIST.
that the world moves. They can witness the volcanic eruption of
French revolution without the absorbing fear, that the “ boiling lava”
is destined to encrust the globe, and embrace religion, honour, truth
and social order in one petrifying deluge ; nay, the world may rise in
arms, and though deprecating the misery and the mischief which the
folly and the passion of man inflicts upon his kind, still they feel that
“all things work together for good.” The world does move; that is
their conviction, and it is ours; were it not so, the Economist should
not have appeared.
All great changes have been preceded by a general conviction of a
WANT—a something which all concurred in testifying they felt to be
essential. The introduction of Christianity itself was preceded by a
general decay of Pagan superstition, which, even before the birth of
Our Saviour, was losing its hold over all educated and intelligent
minds. Nay, the Hebrew polity was already waxing old, and prepar-
ing to vanish away, at the period of the Advent. And when the
Apostles set forth on their great mission, the way was cleared before
them; the Roman empire comprised what was considered as the known
world; and though troubles prevailed here and there, the universal
peace was but little broken. Similar concurring causes may be re-
marked as coincident with other great changes in the moral and social
condition of the human race; old errors decaying; new truths dawning
on the horizon; commotion, controversy, and even revolution ensuing;
and at last the new condition of humanity becoming as much an essen-
tial of the race, as if we had lived under it since Adam was created.
Now, everything around us concurs to demonstrate that we are
approaching 1, GREAT CHANGE, not only in pent-up Britain, but all over
the earth. The social! problem of this age is the rapid MULTIPLICATION
THE HUMAN RACE. ‘The great question is, by what means may
this increase be met, by a corresponding increase of MATERIAL ENJOY-
OF
MENT. Since the world began, no such phenomenon has met the eye
of the observer. Particular countries may have risen, flourished, and
faded; particular nations at particular periods may have swollen out
into multitudinous combinations, afterwards leaving but a relic of
themselves; and at this very day and hour particular races are unhap-
pily disappearing from the earth. Yet it stands as the one vast and
stupendous ract of the present day, that within the now capacious
bounds of what is called civilization, the human race is multiplifying
at a rate unknown since man appeared on the globe. ‘This is the fact
which perplexes governments and amazes nations; which calls into
existence hostile tariffs and perpetuates commercial blunders; which
leads senates into the vain delusion that there is a shorter road to the
WEALTH OF NATIONS than that which nature and providence point out;
and which has created a war of social interests more momentous in its
consequences than all the conquests of an Alexander, all the achieve-
ments of a Napoleon, all the victories of a Marlborough or a Wellington.
Man multiplies within all the range of civilization, and is casting his
swarms beyond it; man multiplies, not alone within Great Britain,
where they say some 230,000 souls are annually added to our numbers,
but in France, in Germany, in the United States, in Southern America,
in India, in the South Seas. Turn back upon the by-past records of
history, and ask if such a phenomenon was ever known before. No!
the swelling flood of human life rises up to the topmost height of all-its
ancient barriers—way must be found for it, or it will overleap them all!
Yes !—the world is on the eve of a stupendous social change. The
old delusions of seclusion, exclusion, restriction, interference, and pro-
tection are waxing old, and are even now ready to vanish away. No
man believes in their permanence, who has a heart to feel, and a mind
to think; and if events are in any way the interpretation and the index
of Providence, we may with reverence affirm, that the finger of Gop
himself points man onwards. Through much suffering, it is said, is
the kingdom of heaven attained; through much suffering, it may also
be observed, do nations as well as individuals learn those truths which
are necessary to their temporal welfare. But at last, purged of their
dross, they appear in native lustre; and a whole people, taught by bitter
experience, receives them with humility, and applies them in earnest-
ness and faith.
It must also be recollected, that there are certain periods or times
in the application of truths, which are essential in their subservience
to man’s use. Christianity, for instance, to recur to our primary illus-
tration, was not promulgated until the ‘‘ fulness of time;’’ and some
of the greatest of those inventions which have blessed the human race
have been, as it were, purposely retarded until the world had been pre-
pared it. Amongst other examples, that of Printing may be
adduced, which was all but discovered two thousand years ago.
r for
1, The
ocean has been at the service of man since the first bark was launched
on it; and commerce has been proved to be the great medium of inter-
national intercourse since the earlier Pheenicians adventured on distant
voyages, and, in exchange for their manufactures, distributed the
metallic products of Britain over the then civilized world. But never,
until now, was the ocean literally suspvEep to our service. Scarcely
a gun can boom along its surface, even in remotest seas, but the echo
is heard almost instantaneously in Europe. There is a rock
ou which a buecaneer may take shelter; not an island where a pirate
may Saiely }
ates scarcely
1estle. From arctic to antartic circle, its utmost bounds
1; it is now, of a verity and truth, the HIGHWAY of
1
iti
are searche ereat
!
the globe; and it waits but the application of universal FREE TRADE
to be the means of pouring into every country the products of every
clime; to diffuse the noblest gifts of religion, of science, of literature,
and of art: and toeffect, in the whole condition of the race, changes
such as the most sanguine imagination n scarcely dream of
Never, too, was there a time so favourable as this for the application
of universal Free Trade. With the exception of some comparatively
light exceptions, there is universal Peace; while the great pressure
of necessity, the accumulation of man and of capital, the unequal dis-
i
tribution of both, the impulsive cry which breaks out, not in England
, for a something which will give employment to both—strong
energy pent up within waiting the call of
capital, art ready to minister to man’s comfort— yea, civilization stand-
ing at the threshold of all nations, and entreating for aid: these pro-
claim that Free Trade must come, and a thousand signs and symptoms
return for answer that it shall come. Beginning, then, with the
beginning; starting with the first of commercial nations, the one whose
alone
narrow bounds—sciencs
10
example carries s force to every other, and from which Free Trade must
first emanate, let us ask what are its chances in
GREAT BRITAIN.
attered ; and though London is still full of pe ople,
From the Queen to the humblest indi-
and means, the
Parliament is sc
it is understood to be empty.
vidual who can obtain time
trips, tours, and marine excursions ;
between the Hig the Rhine, tl
Wales and Ireland being left to the
metropolis has on
and, as usual, atte
Isle of Wight, a
adventurous,
Lone
ntion is divided
nd
thlands, { Switzerland
more Gravesend,
Margate, Ramsgate, Dover, and Brighton, are free to those to whom
time is money, and who cannot quit home or occupation on more
lengthened ¢ xpeditions.
Parliament - scattered ; and every member of the collective wis-
dom, whose daily paper pursues him to his haunts, must either smilk
or sigh at the a t shots sent after Lords and Commons. Vapers of
both political parties are railing at the “ Do-Nothing ” session ; friend
and foe alike bear testimony to the monstrous inaction which charac-
43
terised seven months of debate. In one respect, we join in the com-
plaint, but with motives of a different kind from those which actuati
many of our fellow grumblers. We lament, for the sake of the country
alone, that the session just concluded has been so barren of r sults,
We regret, for the sake of Sir Robert Peel himself, that he did not
boldly continue on the course which he had begun. And, opposed as
we are to all monopoly, we have no d oure to see t] pplication of the
principles of Free Trade in the usive possession of any party or
class. For the sake of the ¢ ie) vee do we join in deploring th
inaction and the
But though barren
respects fatal to the dk
cluded has
neglect of the gre:
of
mination of
far fre
meen : part
a: ‘Tt may rather be comn red
been m unfruit
to th: tne winter fructifying thi oéed in the soil, and preparing it for
the genial spring. Indeed, discussing the matter as a mere speculative
question, and looking at it apart from the pressing necessities of the
country, it may almost be affirmed that the session just concluded
has been far more favourable for the permanent growth of free-trade
principles, than even a course of legislative action. No doubt, if Sir
Robert Peel had resolutely determined to giv > country more free
trade, and had maintained high ground from the very outset. he might
have scared his party into submission, and, with the aid of the f;
traders in the House, have blessed ne country with measures which
must at last be conceded. Still he might have arrayed against him a
formidable minority of his own 1 a who, instead of remaining in
their present passive state, would have started into a dogged opposi-
tion, and, entrenching themselves behind the crumbling bulwarks of
old monopoly, prepared for a vigorous resistance. But
policy of the Government compelled the ministerial majority to assent
at least by their silence, to the modified arguments with which Sir
Robert Peel and Mr Gladstone at once advocated and resisté (
trade principles. Not a word was spoken, last session. from either
side of the House about the inherent virtue which us l to be con-
sidered resident in monopoly. Had anybody talked, as they talked in
1841, about “ independence of foreigners,” it would have raised a storm
of laughter. True, Sir Edward Knatchbull hinted about the (
Laws as being n cessary, in order to en: indlords to give ¢ |
marriage settlements with their daughte1 while he was speak
ing you might have seen written on ev yintenance on his own
side of the House—“ The old fool !” Those arguments which. in 1841
were in full lustihood and vigour—which were simpered in pamphlets
roared from the hustings, re-echoed in m @ nd chee) }
crowds, are now as dead and gone as thx proofs that the sun rolled
round the earth. In the Commons they are dumb : in the Lords on]
heard in the strains of well-meani i, but very mistaken Earl St
hope. In truth, the major f the House of Commons has bh
in 1843, completely ashamed of what it had id id d l 1,
This is truly a “ prodi 1S van . is a rich ¢ 1 is » for
the do-nothing pol f tl The G rnment, by abst
from action, gave time for e principles free trade t
minds not very apt for their recepti : lering tl I
dull character of their pupils, it must b In 1 that Sir Rober
Peel and Mr Gladstone have he 1 very suc S in their nit }
Even most respectable and uly Mr Goulburn is risir n. und
the care of Sir James Graham, to an appreciation of the truth. tl t]
principles of free trade ar inciplk
In truth, last session, s« r ses 1, was a
most remarkable ons at ends for which
parliament assembles. f' ¢ ! sj
not simply to legislate 1 1 within
two months of each year. Its prime function is thi ORMA O!
PUBLIC OPINION, or rather its ConpD! NSATION AND CONCENT yw. Yre-
paratory to legislation. No great anaes to be effectual. safi ‘at l
permanent, can be achieved by a sudden impulse; the public mind, i
this country, is somewhat slu h in its movem nts, and requires « m-
tinued reiteration to stamn it with the sense, the feel 1 th
power of thos rguments by which great changes are promoted. But
when it does move, the Hou » of Commons is, er all, not a bad index
Sometimes, like certain not very infallible barometers, it predicts
mt . in atte } 7 ' > ) 4
fall of rain after the r 1 has come down. But. on the whol a
constituencies evince that they are positively affected. and t} r
body of members will be seen t o s] ly round nd q .
a Ly it the desired ol iect ,
Che debates in the Hou i Commons are interesting, not to Grea
Britain alone, but to the whok vilised world z } ’ :
| Trea - +} ‘ 4 cr eae Saad
ship, works ar , Griyv i] ( ! , ‘
th 1 t fr trade. a } ] ? I wn ns ie ’ ‘
the I se of ( lu < ] al 1
ot ft son is W yy) 1 j } r nd m . =
ma r, the er in n + way? >t} nubl : i ta
whi l no verv rem ner will tect lf a NY g
. ss , . L .
by being embodied in legislation
“Take the first ; ye ’ = ae °
Take the rst great del bate of the Sessior i-that raised by Lord
THE ECONOMIST. [Ss eptember 2,
| Howic k on the l; sth of February, lasting from Mond: ay till F rids Ly; and
which was closed by the memorable scene between Sir Robert Peel and
Mr Cobden, of which, as we have reason to believe that the prime mi-
nister is heartily ashamed, and desirous that it should be buried in
oblivion, we shall say nothing more. The speech of Lord Howick was
really an admirable -clear, distinct, manly, and straightforward.
Indeed, this nobleman has many if not most of the re requi-
site for the leader of a party which will take up high groun¢ i, and be
the van-guard of public opinion, His economic views are sound; they
are laid down with ability, precision, clearness, and are sastainell by a
kind of pointed and common-sense eloquence somewhat rare in his
Personally, he is a little defective in temper, and leans rather
towards a certain kind of dogmatism: but his honour and his honesty
are unimpeachable. We hope to sce him next session taking up a po-
sition worthy of his station, character, and ability.
How | Howick answered ? Let Mr Gladstone tell. He left
he Corn Laws totterin ing-stone of temporary expediency ;
one
class.
was Lor
ron the ste pp
he talked of “ the re volution of ages an d of circumstances.” The phi-
lo ophic President of the Board of Trade had doubtless been reading
Guizot’s Lectures on C iviliza ution, and probably had in his mind, that
Homer through
und ages have rolled away!” So thought, at
him—so felt every advocate of pro-
revolution of ages
Providence ‘hannah time, as the gods
space —it
least, every
Tec
and of circums
The debate
Mr Cobden
moves
step,
free trader who heard
who had
makes a
enough to see where “the
tended.
was characterised by 1
sense
tion,
ances
iny remarkable eens that
and was an in-
one of his most striking efforts,
was
citing cause of the very silly attempt to put him down. The minis-
terial members had been all expressly whipped up to town, in order,
by a heavy division, to efft i double object. The agricultural interest
having succeeded in making a compact with the Government, that no
med advisable at once
and the tion; and therefore, about four
morning (though within the House there had
been a tropical hurricane), of the representatives of the people there
livided ¢ 191, a majority of 115.
fut grievously was the majority mistaken, in supposing that their
numbers would render the opposition quiet, or even keep the govern-
nt For though the government did very little, still they
something; they brought in a Canadian Wheat Bill, which stirred
whole ion from its very foundat and they closed the
repealing the prohibition to export machinery, Mr Gladstone
aken, it was de
( )pposi
farther changes should be undert
to overawe Ministers
} ly o'clock of a very snowy
Be rainst being
> ag
m passive.
did
up the
S¢ ssion,
question ions;
by
urging the measure with arguments identical with those by which he
will as gue for the repeal of the Corn Laws, say next session.
As for the free traders, they did their duty. There was Mr Ward,
with his very adroit motion for inquiring into the peculiar burdens
alleged to be laid on land. This was one of the most gravelling things
of the session, and literally put the agriculturists between the horns
heir own dilemma. Mr
who said “ No!” to his
ly requisite; the
Ward was supported by 183 against 232,
inquiry. But their refusal was
ady done the business, and left
to be eradicated.
motion ior
scarce debate had alre
yression on the mind not ¢
an im] pul lic asily
Again, there was Mr Villiers’ motion for the repeal of the Corn Laws,
sted a week, and was not permitted to
: similar to that which marked the close
rd Howick. An adjournment of the
till the following Monday,
in the month of M Lv, which |
ve closed without a fit of passe
F ] tion of Li
Friday ni several
le bate was pre post lon
members not having had opportunity f joining in it. Whereupon certain
memb« rs on the Ministerial eld thought fit that they should be gagged;
1d persevered, with something very like stupidity, in refusing to
permit the irnmment. The Opposition were not to be put down in
thi au refore prolonged the contest; Ministers fled from the
S lof the conduct of their ov supporters, of which they
emselves at las felt the disgrace, that one of them compelled the
I ers to W ! 1 order t tno re rd ight | given to the
public. TJ morning sun put out the | ts in the House of Commons;
und the free trad havi uined t victory, were permitted to
leave the field.
But our space Ww yuld fail us were we to go over the varied debates
last session all bearing on the great question. We shall have ample
t however, to do this during the recess, for they will form our
text-book preparatory to next ses ». Our task is a similar one to
that which Mr Cobden assigned hi If, when, in lis pointed way, he
\ lt LeTl ural benches, and told its occupants what he intended
to It was on Mondav, August 14 ; the occasion was the Chelsea
Pensi s’ Bill. In 1835, said Mr Cobden, when work was plentiful,
nd food cheap. not even Vemosthenes could have gathered round him
ience on the subject of the Corn Laws. But now/—to their castle
cates, he exclaimed, would he carry the war; amongst their own
( tituencies would find anxious and attentive listeners. They
heard and felt; for Mr Cobden, by indomitable courage and keen intel-
kk has established his unquestioned right to be heard in the House
Commons; and they know that what he says he will do.
Next week we may go in search of a monopolist in the House of
Commons, for with th exception of Colonel Sibthorp and Sir Howard
Douglas—two very great men—we do not know one who does not by
s tin 1 adherence to free trade, either in the abstract or the
ical
‘RANCYT
Franc t first sight, would apy to be one of the last countries of
t ‘ here the examp I land on the hject of free trade
ld 1 mitated. There prevails, amongst what may be termed the
li cla n Frane< i tolerabls strong feeling of jea-
Y t ( \ | fostered by certain Parisian
' y an al l hafa pirit re-
< , t | lificult to understand.
In i { | of th ( try eal \ able
t im te un fi I and liberal
che h {nglophol
uch to hope f | ce The Parisian war
1 lo t represent t who opinion ; the country is rapidly
in material prosperity; and there is a great middle class, in-
: |
creas ing both in numbers an d in ‘wealtl ly who § are “hot ready to sacrifice
vw
] j THE ECONOMIST. 11
the solid advantages of peace and good-will between the two countries
for the empty glory or probablé “disgrace of an insane war. The very
jealousy and impatience of Frenchmen with respect to this country is, in
itself, one proof that France is advancing; and though we are not likely
to coax the French Government and people into the adoption of free
trade before we set them the example, we may depend upon it that the
moment we do so we shall have taken a more decided step towards secur-
tha ¢ oti
ing a permanent peace between the two countries than all
It is impossible to exaggerate the benefit which wou
result to both countries—and as much, if not more, to France than Eng-
land—were they free, open markets for onc another’s productions,
Meantime, it is pleasant to notice the exchange of courtesies |}
King Louis Philippe and Que en Victoria. The King of the | rench, with
can negotiate.
etweeon
his family, are now at his marine villa, the Chateau d’Eu, aw iting the
expected visit of the Queen and Prince Albert. On Monday last they
met with a very dangerous adveuture. It appears that the King, the
Queen, the Count of Paris, the Prince and Princess of Joinville, th
Royal Family now
Duke d’Aumale, and, in fact, all the members of the A nf the ob
he re, took one of the ir usual drives in the lie i rhbourho m2 OF
The carriage occupied by the Royal Family wasa large open one, hung round
with curtains, with seats across it, and capable of carrying a great number
less than ten members
ateau
of persons, and contained, upon this occ asion, no
of the Royal Family, including Louis Philippe, the Queen, and the Count
of Paris. The carriage was drawn by four very spirited horses. The
party, it appears, happened, in the course of their drive, to pass through
Treport, a small fishing village, and the inhabitants salute d them with a
feu de joie. The guns were fired just as the carriage was approaching the
neighbourhood of a bridge which spans the Brezle, a small river, at tl
mouth of which the village of eport is situated Nothing could be
more unexpected than the result. The horses, startled by the noi om-
menced plunging furiously. The postilions lost all command of them, and
they darted forward towards the bridge, the parapet of whic h the leader
third horse was dragged ter its companions,
d inevitable
The
lestruction of the
but fortunately the postilion was enabled to acquire some
the fourth horse, and he did not follow. Wad he done
no doubt of the result. Assistance, however, was happily at hand, and
the whole party were released from their perilous position ; not,
before the traces had been with great difficulty cut, and the horses left
their fate. The of course, fell into the stream below, ¢
were injured, but both the postilions escape d
The alarm of the whole party in such fearful
been very great. The Queen was much affected, and wept bitterly after
the danger was over. The King himself acted with great
mind, He held the young Count of Paris in his arms, and
leave the carriage till every member of his family was placed
terra firma,
cleared at a bound,
and for a moment the whole party seem
command ove
so, ther could be
howe.
three horses,
must |}
circumstances
pre
refused to
in safety on
SPAIN.
This fine country, which has been, and might be, one of the most
disquietude, uncertainty, and
l. We
ut the
his defec
flourishing in Europe, is involved in all th
danger, which the receut revolution
informed as to the real which
Espartero from the Regency ; whatever may have been
ment, he appears to have exercised his power
hear that there are too many indications that
ive tranquillity to the
has produce are too little
Causes brought abo
ts of ju
purest motives; a
le.
with the nd
we the men who have s
seded him are not lik« ly to : country, or inspire
pe ople with confidence in their government.
The young Queen of Spain has been conyeyed to the Royal palac
Granja, about four leagues from Madrid.
Later intelligence states that the members of the Junt vho have
arrived at Madrid have come to an understanding with the Government
and it is probable that the submission to the present rt le of th '
will soon be general. The Morning Chronicle thinks that to the Duke of
Victory, as soon as a regularly convene l and constituent Cortes shall have
passt da vote terminating his Reg« y, we think ought to submit to i
But that he should yield an aut! itv conferred by the Cortes to tl
summons of Senors Serrano, Narva und Olozaga t m ite t}
legal powers of any kind, and who at tl moment hrink from or
elections for either Cortes or Muni litie to gi up hisconstitn¢ j
authority before the tribunes of tl 3 Fre: -paid insurrect ware
worthy of Es} irtero.””
Mr Aston has been insti 1 to recognise the Provisional Government
TrAuy
It seems that an insurrection S] red for the month of Augu
Sicily and Naples, as well as in the legations. The King of Naples had
however, taken every precaution. He has sent a number of troops to
Sicily, and has taken steps to fortify Messina and Syracuse. It was on
les that the Liberals
Papal legate, Spinola
rumour of some troubles in Nay of Ravenna thou
|
the time was come to make a demonstration.
was, however, on his
Many, however, escape Lto the ¢ I
of Ferrara was augmented. The Duke of
been dismissed in «
guard, and most of those suspected were seized
It is saidthat the Anst ian garri
Modena’s Police Minister, Ricci,
} as thought it n
ny] Udi
ly
ou
» himself, as im} licated in these tre
has not
fly and h
The German papers contain congratulations on the subject of Berlin
being rendered a port, by the railroa 1 just opened between it and Stettin.
Che journey is performed in four hours,
The Berlin Gazette contradicts the report that tl sokharians had t '
Khiva. On the contrary, having laid si to KI ish, they
attacked by the Khivans and defeated with immense loss.
The Greek Government has sus
in compliance, it is said, with t protecting po <
2 a Ss > | . y vil
insisted on the strictest system of economy being introduced into the
finances. The crops had suffered severely in most of t] pro 1¢
. - e . ‘
greatest misery pervaded the whole country.
SERVIA,
The chanee broucht abont in the Government of Servia tea dy 4
the intrig iterfered with by the Court of S acea i
and f t indecision « ome of the ot] P
prom ‘ e favoural { ( 1d ’
rhe A hurg (az ! { ' !
Nota! c j i the &th K ; ik ; ee
} } } r
had em ve LOK if a t 0 .
, | 1 +} { 1 i Che)
a Db Qo ol { yyTY j teal ‘ ) ] ) \\ Veity
VW Y t} v were TK “ ? ' , | ] } 4 '
Was ex cted t} re | :
shortly | hed
JERUSALEM
M. de Lentivy, the newly-appointed French Consul at Jerusalem, haying
of
( xpulsi ym of
imprudently hoisted the tri-coloured flag at the consulate on the 27th ult.,
in commemoration of the revolution of 1830, the people had become infu-
riated at a proceeding hitherto without example in a holy city of the
Moslems, and threatened, if the offensive emblem were not instantly taken
down, to sound the signal of the “ ghuzy,” or extermination of the infi-
dels. M.de Lenfivy refusing to comply with this injunction, the mob
attacked the consulate, shots were exchanged, and several persons
wounded, and the tumult only ended when the fl was removed Red-
schid P: rh riven full satisfaction for the ill treatment suffered by
Dr M‘Gowan from a Turkish ofiicer, The latter was to be publicly de-
graded, and his man bastinadoed, as demanded by ‘the British Consul,
but owing to the excitement occasioned by the affair of the French flag,
Mr You had deemed it expedient to defer the inflicti } '
ng icemect Li eadient er the INnnIctiol ie p i
a | i 1 1 ort penalty
ior some adays,
THE UNITED STATES.
Great prepara s are making by the Democratic party for the coming
Presidential contest It may now be considered as settled that both the
Democratic and the Whig partic hold their respective conventions in
May next, to designate their candidates for the oftices of President and
Vice-President. In thus fixing the time of meeting in May, the friends of
Mr Calhoun have triumphed over the friends of Mr Van Buren. The lat-
ter contended that the convention should be held in November, 1843, while
the former urged with great pertinacity, and succeeded, that it should be
postponed until May, 1844.
The new Congress convene in December. The Democratic party will
have ‘ whelming ma \ > House of Representatives, and,
] biyv, one half the = t but s ft ! the l rislature of
Penne just elected, is Wh t] party will have a decided majority
int} « of t] | t Stat I n Ss two senators o be
( ) t pre t t t t« bot] its } i been vacant for more
thai The Democratic party stands pledged, among other thing
to resto thes tr sury, and to repeal or 1 iodel the present tariff.
The Whigs are inactive. Some little excitement has been pr
in two or three ites, but there i oO Dp! spect ot its extending during the
yt 1843. They appear resolved to fight the great Presidential battle of
1844 in 1844, and not before. No person in their ranks has been spoke
of as a d ite except Ts
Che weather over the ater part of the United States had been, as in
wet in the months of May and June;
ant late) had
nthat t
this ¢ than usu
the crowtl
yuntry, more
1 of
far retarded as te
and
(which was so
been
sown
1e picking, like our own harvest,
would commence om three weeks to a month later than last yea There
s so li » reason to doubt, that part ul injury has been sust ined in
the low grounds, from floods and superabundant moisture. This intelli-
genes brought by the Acadia steamer, on Tuesday, caused considerable
excitement rpool market. But the Manchester Guardian says
that at the last advices, the crop had received no serious in-
jury: and, though the probable lateness of tl » picking would, no doubt,
diminish the produce to some extent, yet, with favourable weather, an
ivera produc nay be expected; and it is admitted on.all hands that
the breadth of land under cultivation is decidedly greater than was ever
before kn
The ré 1 of the crop of 1842 are yw fast drawing to a close The
4 t a 1,990,000
I sto Gre Britain - 1,460,000
. ill t ports , L1L0,000
Expl OF THE STATE GOVERNMENTS.—By a table in the papers,
t appears that the : ‘ t l expe! ture of the several ates im
| | é , olla
a eee nee a ve $i 5 ul i, 1 s5
(MEI PACTORI The Amosk M Company are
Lbout ¢ her m ' \I | oo a ] +4) fect in
1
l ae tl ze oft Inllis HOW il Operation at that
) he |] iV I oO W i | 0 vy, ( co
ind blea \ J ra I All \ rea b rted
' iy cap g
\ CAN MANUFACTUI . ch t of ‘Troy, engaged in east-
! n { he fo | extre lifficuilt, when in Boston
to obt i } s oth of August the
‘ t! fact b »fu is to | them
‘ \ y at \ \ en exported from Boston to
( 1! | ( \ is of co m £o wl trom
( ut to China, the « y | 1 12,000,000 yards; the
‘ ri ) s th Pp { ay Wh
The ¢ question was exciting some int t in Philadelphi An
. a a
friendly letter
tim for 000 dollars wort 1 of opiu n destroyed.
In Ca la, it appears the commissioners appointed to settle the claims
rf t on the St John had taken a holiday, from the unf: able
aw ; . . ae ,
y 1 experienced, and also in cons ce of the difficulty of
| of i It wa vorted that the boundary com-
missior hac the meaning of the language in the
} 4 ! .
celebrated As} 1 tl Ol f the surveying party had
pend d oner: t e) t. :
MEXICO
I 1M » we learn that the President Santa Anna has issued a de-
( } + T 1” 4 > ] ; |
late . 4 h decl that all foreigners taken with
+} } ! ‘ Seek, sa . a s :
rm 1 1a i lexico, will be immediate ly put to
i th
ee ee Ce RR
OUR LIBRARY TABLE
Lt A 4 > A u | A BLE
> T ;
Russia. By J.G. Kohl. One vol. 8vo. Chapman and Hall. 1842
te %
: C ] I ] i i ( remem! to
‘ S t i tal ’ ! i
l > ( } vi} ‘ g 7
i
racter | bepuiitteued Russ ' ™ ; ee 5
\ y vat. oy { I y ‘
' wh i \ n ¢ s e
‘ l $ so ipl rt nN { \ ]
how ni} . ) f Em 7" ty
+
S11 ry \ ti 1 | } , ,
I ' ik, we may safely recommend Mr Kohl’s book: he has
Wavelleu with fis CYCSs ala his ears Opa, alu Ay oLy dees he seem to
but he describes well whas ‘he hea amvel.
have obse rved ac utely,
Any one who has ever attempted to swallow the trash which is daily
administered to the public in the shape of books of travels, under the va-
“notes.” “reeollections,” &c. &c. &e.
aware that what we say of Mr Kohl’s book is no slight praise. To write
a tolerable book on most subjects is generally supposed to require some
rious titles of “journals,” will be
labour, some refiection, and some practised habits of composition, but
when the subject is to describe a country or a nation, the public seems
to suppose that everybody,—boys just out of college, ensigns in the
guards, fine ladies, and titled boobies,—can write a respectable book.
generally but two phases; by dint of puffing
which
Such productions have
they obtain an ephemeral existence, during they lie the
club library table, in the London drawing room, or circulating in
the country book society, they draw yawns from the clergyman’s wife
and the squire’s daughter: this is their first phase. For the second,
inquire at the next trunk-maker’s shop. But we do not our
opinion of Mr Kohl’s book to be taken on trust; we will endeavour to
prove that our praise is just, though there is a vein of animation and
liveliness running through the work, of which extracts will hardly
on
or
wish
give any correct idea.
We hear of costly wines, but
the Emperor’s yearly draught of water:—
“The Northern winter imprisons the lovely nymph of the Neva in icy
bands for six months in the year. It is seldom till after the beginning of
April that the water requires sufficient warmth to burst her prison. At
that moment the commandant of the fortress, arrayed in all the insignia
of his rank, and accompanied by the officers of his suite, embarks in an
elegant gondola and repairs to the Emperor’s palace, which is immediately
opposite. He fills a large crystal goblet with the water of the Neva, and
presents it to the Empe ror, who drinks it off to the health of the dear
citizens of his capital. There is not, probably, on the face of the globe
another glass of water that brings a better price, for it is customary for
the Emperor to fill the goblet with ducats before he returfs it to the com-
mandant. Such, at least, was the custom; but the goblet was found to
have a sad tendency to enlarge its dimensions, so that the Emperor began
to perceive that he had every year a larger dose of water to drink, and a
greater number of ducats to pay for it. At last he thought it high time
to compromise matters with his commandaut, who now receives on each
occasion a fixed sum of 200 ducats.”—P. 14
But here is the Emperor himself, the man who rules from China to
Germany, and from the North Pole to Persia: —
“ The Admiralty is surrounded by a boulevard and double row of trees.
Under these trees the spectators usu ally walk about during the time of the
parade. The Emperor generally commands in person. To see the Em-
peror ride by with his brilliant staff is itself worth seeing. He is a hand-
some mi ujestic -looking man. By his side rides his eldest son, and behind
follow a cloud of cavaliers, of whom each is, at the least, a prince’s son and a
As this splendid cortege advances, the soldiers, drawn up
° Good
Ma-
none can be compared in price with
mi ajor -pene ral,
in line, present their arms, and the spectators uncover their heads.
morning, children !’ is the Emperor’s salutation; ‘ We thank your
jesty,’ is the response that comes thundering in unison from thousands of
throats.”—P. 34.
The Emperor has no sinecure:—
A stranger has no occasion, however, to go to the parade, if his object
is merely to see the Emperor, who may be met with on foot, on horseback,
in a droshky, in all parts of St Petersburg, and at every hour of the
“
or
day. There is no other monarch w ho appears to have so much business
to do in the streets as the successor of Peter the Great. There are public
institutions to be inspected, the offices of the different departments of
government to be visited, reviews to be held, national festivals at which
he is expected to attend, new buildings to be superintended, not to speak
of the many private visits paid to those whom he is disposed to honour
with so high a mark of favour.”
Like the early Roman emperors, he seeks to disarm envy by avoiding
great display of superiority
“ Whenever the Emperor appears in public, he
ple and unpretending manner that can be imagi
when driving through the streets of his capital, or a droshky,
drawn by a single horse; and when travelling his teteque is a rude car-
riage, little better than those used by the serfs. This is not, however, a
custom peculiar to the present Emperor, it was adopted by Peter the
Great, and has been followed by all his successors
does so in the most sim-
ined. His usual vehicle
is a sledge
The following account is an interesting proof of his influence over
his subjects. The circumstance occurred
“In 1832, when the cholera raged in St Petersburg, and when the
mobility, who make the hay market their daily lounge, were seized with
the rfotion that not God, but the doctors, had brought th 1e pe stilence among
them. The physicians were supposed to be poisoning x people, and thus
excited by the ir own absurd sus picions, broke out one morning into open
insurrection. The frantic mob of graybeards ran wildly about the neigh-
bouring streets, seized upon the cholera carts, made the patients get out,
set the horses loose, and after breaking the vehic es threw the fragments
into the Fontanka, and then fortified the market place by erecting barri-
cades of hay waggons at the several entrances. The insurgents passed the
night behind their intrenchments, and resolved, on the following morning,
to deal with the doctors as they . ud dealt with the earts. Early in the
morning, acco the great cholera h« was attacked and taken
by storm. Tl mostly Germans, were thrown from the win-
dows and torn to pieces by tl ec mob, and the pati ts were conve ved to
their houses, that th yi ight be freed from the clutches of their sup-
posed tormentors. Shortly afterwards the Emperor arrived from Zars
koye- Selo, and immediately repaired to the market in an open carriage,
unattends d by any military escort. bey barricades disappeared at his
approach. His carriage drew u p at the entrance of the church, where he
praved and crossed him , and then addressed to the multitude a few
words. He bade the people kneel down and pray to God to forgive them
their wonrty and all that lately so tumultuous multitude knelt down at the
command of their sovereign, and unresistingly allowed the police to come
+]
among the m ona quiet)
P; 88.
We have seen the Emperor; here is
y convey the ringleaders of the riot to prison.”—
his subject. The mushik is an
THE ECONOMIST. [September 2,
individual belonging to the “ black people,” the Russian term for the
lower orders :—
“At the first glance there is something exceedingly repulsive in the
Russian mushik. His hair is long and shaggy, and so is his beard; his
person is dirty, he is always noisy ; and when wrapped up in his sheepskin
he certainly presents a figure more suitable for a bandit or a murderer
than for a man devoted to peaceable occupations. This apparent rudeness,
however, is less a part of the man himself than of his hair and beard, of
his shaggy sheepskin, and the loud deep tone of his voice. The stranger
who is able to address him with kindness in his native language, soon dis-
covers in the mushik a good-humoured, friendly, harmless, and serviceable
creature. ‘Good day, “brothe r, how goes it? * *Good day, father, thank
God it goes well with me. What is your pleasure? How can I serve
you?’ And at these words his face unbends into a simpering smile, the
hat is taken off, the glove drawn from the hand, bow follows bow, and he
will catch your hand with native politeness and good-humoured cor-
diality.”—P. 63.
Though good-humoured and polite, however, sad to say, the mushik,
according to our author, is apt to be both a cheat andasot. Heisa
clever fellow, too, as the following anecdote will prove:—
“The Emperor wished to illuminate the Alexander column in a grand
style, the size of the round lamps was indicated, and the glasses bespoken
at the St Petersburg manufactory, where the workmen exerted themselves
in vain, and almost blew the breath out of their bodies in the endeavour
to obtain the desired magnitude. The commission must be executed, that
was self-evident, but how? A great premium was offered to whoever
should solve this problem. Again the human bellows toiled and puffed,
their object seemed unattainable, when at last a long-bearded Russian
stepped forward and declared that he could do it: he had strong and
sound lungs, he would only rinse his mouth first with a little cold water to
refresh them. He applied his mouth to the pipe, and puffed to such pur-
pose that the vitreous ball swelled and swelled nearly to the required
dimensions, up to it, beyond it. ‘ Hold, hold,’ cried the lookers on, ‘ you
are doing too much, and how did you do it at all? ’—‘ The matter is sim-
ple enough,’ said the long-beard; ‘but first, where is my premium?’
And when he had clutched the promised bounty he explained. He had
retained some of the water in his mouth, which had passed thence into the
glowing ball, and there becoming steam, had rendered him this good
service.”
Mr Kohl gives us a portrait of our countrymen in St Petersburg;
we should say the resemblance was good.
“The English form a colony apart yet more than the Germans, who
have many Russian subjects among their body ; while the former remain
~ ays the ‘foreign guests,’ who in time of peace share the privilege of the
iatives without p artaking of their burdens. They call their body the St
Pe tersburg Factory. They have their own church, and live secluded
among themselves, de ‘spising all other nations, and more particularly their
hosts the Russi: ans; drive English equipages; hunt the bear on the shores
of the Neva as they do the tiger on the banks of the Ganges; decline
taking off their hats to the Emperor, and looking down on all men, boast
of their own indispensableness and their iny incible fleet.”
As they look down on the Russians, so do the latter look up to
them.
“ According to the views of the ordinary Russian, the whole European
world is divided into two parts, into ‘our side’ and ‘your side,’ under
which latter denomination he includes all Europe that is not Russian.
The other half of Europe he also calls the ‘ foreign land,’ and has a general
idea that all within it is of a superior kind, the people particularly excel-
lent, nature extraordinarily beautiful, the productions of art and industry
irreproachable. Thence come those ‘ Inostranzi,’ or foreigners, those wise
people who understand everything better than he does, and from whom
he learns so much.”
We quote the following as a remarkable instance of like effects
following like causes, and of the power of a landed aristocracy, even
in an absolute monarchy, to bend the force of the law to the promo.
tion of their individual interests:
“ The landowners have turned to account their large unemployed capital
of money and serfs, and established manufactories on their own ground,
under the management of their own slaves. All these fairs and markets
of interior Russia are flooded with paper, iron goods, cups, teapots, &c., of
the Demidoffs, Jakowsleffs, Karpzoffs, &c. These mighty influential manu-
facturing aristocrats are in many cases the great obstacles to the improve-
ment of the manufactures by means of the smaller, but more skilful pro-
ducers, who are now quite shut out from competition by the privileged
monopolists. In this respect the Russian aristocracy stand in the same
relation to the manufacturing industry, as the Englis sh aristoc racy do to
the agricultural. In England, where the importation of raw produc e is 80
greatly needed, the sole proprietorship of the soil by the powerful aristo-
cre Ac y not only makes bread dear, but prevents the improvement of agri-
culture. In Russia, where there is a superfluity of raw produce, but a
want of manufactures, the aristocracy manufacturing for themselves have
demanded a high tax on the foreign article, and partly because their social
position gives them a natural predominance; partly because, for the
advancement of some particular branch of industry, they unite to obtain
monopolies from their government, a bar is placed to the invention and
acquisition of the other classes, who, moreover, must pay much dearer for
the necessary manufactures on that very account. "a P, 125.
We here close our extracts. We have taken them from a part only
of the rolume, and we may perhaps, therefore, be tempted to make a
few more on some future occasion. We hope, however, that we have
extracted enough to show that we do not err in thinking Mr Kohl's
those which it is a satisfaction not only to read, but also
ead. We understand that the author is at present
be 0k one ot
to possess when
in this country ; if this be so, we hope he will take a full-length
likeness of us, with the same skill with which he has depicted the
Russians,
with
2 vols. 8vo.
Memoirs and Notes.
Bentley. 1843.
We have been much disappointed by this book. With the credulity
natural to man, putting faith in the title, we hoped to discover in these
two octavo volumes some evidence of that wit and conversational
By Gé orae Ne lu un and h is ( ‘ontempora? 1€8,
John Heneage Jesse.
talent which the tradition of London society attributes to the name of
George Selwyn. In this hope, and expecting to find it a fit companion
on the library shelf for Horace Walpole and Madame de Sevigné, we
sent for the book. It consists of a great number of letters from a num-
ber of different persons, addressed to George Selwyn, during a period
of thirty years ; but from Selwyn’s own hand there are in the whole
two volumes only seven or eight letters, and the great number of them
entirely relating to business. There is not a vestige of anything which
can enable us to judge of the truth of the tradition above mentioned ;
and, in point of fact, the book has as much claim to be entitled George
Selwyn and his Contemporaries, as Walpok’s Letters to Sir H. Manu
There is nothing else
The mass of
might have to be called Mann and his Times.
in these letters to compensate for our disappointment.
them consists of the merest gossip, of commissions for the purchase of
silk stockings or china in Paris, and other matters wholly uninterest-
ing. A gossiping letter of our own friends is often interesting, because
it relates to persons and things with which we are familiar, but tittle-
tattle and scandal lose their zest when they concern unimportant per-
sonages many years dead, buried, and forgotten. No
farthing whether Lady A. was civil to Mr B. a century ago, or that
Lord C. thought of marrying Miss D., who was great grandmother to
Mrs F. Who is amused, interested, or pleased at learning that Lord
March, in 1766, had changed his mistress, or that Mr Williams was
willing to invest five pounds in a pair of French ruffles? Details such
as these, to have any interest with posterity, must concern great per-
sonages, with whom fame has made us acquainted, and regarding whom
we wish to know every particular, however trifling; or they must
relate to persons whom we ourselves know; or, lastly, they may be
written with such a charm of style as to please on that account, with-
out reference to their subject matter. Few of these letters, as we
think, can be put under any one of the heads of exception to the
general rule which we have laid down above ; a few, perhaps, but a
few only, may be saved from condemnation under the third. We were
rather amused with the following note to Selwyn, who had lately suc-
ceeded his father as member for Gloucester. The duties of the mem-
ber for an important city were certainly somewhat different ninety
years ago from what they are now. My Alderman Harris writes in
1752 from Gloucester :—
“ Sir,—At the request of Mr Mayor, whose extraordinary hurry of busi-
ness will not afford him leisure to write himself, I am desired to acquaint
you, that by the Gloucester waggon this week is sent the usual present
of a lamprey pie from this corporation to H. R. H. the Prince of Wales.
It is directed to you, and I am further to request the favour of you to have
the same presented, with the compliments of this body, as your late father
used to do.”—Vol. i, p. 153.
What recollection of good old times does this note call up! How sad
to think that they have passed away! Alas! for Albert Edward
Prince of Wales, no Berkeley or Philpotts is now directed to present
him with lamprey pie. But all things are not changed since those
times, Oxford, for instance :
“T cannot help casting my eyes on that part of your letter, where you
seem to think the people of Oxford had principles; this really astonishes
me, for you must know they never had any, moral or divine; party only
governs.” —Vol. i, p. 85.
There were Waterfords, too, in those days. Mr Scrope writes—
“ After drinking four bottles, which had made me mad, and the rest of
the company drunk, I strapped and carried Baron Newman, alias Crook-
fingered Jack, in a chair, quite up to the end of Joy’s long room, at nine
o’clock, where all the company then in Tunbridge were assembled. I tore
open the door and top of the chair, and down he dropped, to all appearance
adead man. Miss Chadleigh fainted, and was carried off. This spread
among the ladies like a contagion. I am informed of eight at least who
fell into fits.”
County members may take a hint from the following.
Bunbury, a celebrated beauty, writes—
“ We think and talk of nothing but elections. Sir Charles’s (her hus-
band’s) county meeting is to-morrow, where he expects an opposition, and
the day after we both set out, he to go to one side of the county, and I on
the other, to canvass.”
The first Lord Holland, no mean judge, speaks thus of two men who
were both first ministers of the crown. Of George Grenville :
“7 do not wonder when I see sensible men with strong prejudices, but
it does surprise me, when they are in favour of a conceited fellow, whom one
can neither see nor hear without disgust, and who noddles his head so, and
is so tedious,”—Vol. ii, p. 24.
The Duke of Newcastle :
“His Grace had no friends and deserved none. He had no rancour: no
ill nature, which I think much to his honour: but though a very good
quality, it is only a negative one, and he had absolutely no one positive
good, either of his heart or head.”—Vol. ii, p. 269.
We have a saddening picture of the feelings of a deserted statesman
in these lines, from the hand of the same great man:
“J never envied Mr Yorke whilst he lived, but I must take leave to
envy him, and everybody else, when they are dead.” —Vol. ii, p. 378.
We will conclude our extracts with something less melancholy. He
who, when alive, is said to have made so many laugh by his wit, can,
when dead, we think, fairly claim a smile from us, by the following
evidence of his weakness. A correspondent writes to Selwyn:
“ Your old maid-servant desired I would, with her humble duty, let you
know that the little dog is very well, and that she continues to sleep with
it at my Lord Carlisle’s, lest the smell of the paint should hurt it.”
We fear, besides affording proof of such harmless weakness as this,
that the perusal of these letters leads us to an inference that Selwyn
one cares a
Lady Sarah
THE ECON OMIST. 13
ees ee
habits were none of the most respectable, ur moral. We began with
saying that we found no trace of his wit or social qualities, but there
are undeniable traces of his being a confirmed gambler ; and, if he is
to be judged of by his companions and most frequent correspondents,
we may safely pronounce him to have been a profligate spendthrift.
The history of these letters we may readily conjecture.
the present Dowager Lady Hertford, was the legatee of Selwyn’s pro-
perty ; the late Lord, with that lady and her fortune, no doubt became
Miss Faguiani,
the possessor of these letters, and by his executors they have been
Of course
the residuary of his lordship’s estate has been benefited, but we cannot
discover what advantage has accrued either to Selwyn’s credit or to the
public by this transaction.
‘ . TY r MISCELLANEOUS.
TurN-ouT oF SEAMEN IN LiveRPooLt.—A turn-out has taken place
among the seamen of this port of a somewhat formidable character, as to
the numbers who have already joined in it, and also as regards the deter-
mined manner in which they seem bent on accomplishing their purpose.
It commenced very unexpectedly at noon on Thursday, when about 200
seamen marched in a body towards the west front of the Custom-house,
where they halted, formed a sort of meeting, and proceeded to inveigh
most strongly against an exorbitant charge to which they alleged they had
been subjected at what are called the shipping offices of the port. They
complain of the exactions of the agents with whom ships are manned.
A Wiryess Reprovep.—Are you always in the house? said Mr Wat-
son to a witness in a libel case. Witness: Nearly so, except when I go to
the news-room. Mr Watson: You are perhaps a conscientious reader of
a newspaper. (Laughter.) You read all the debates and advertisements
through. Witness: No, nor lawyer’s jargon, either. Mr Justice Cress-
well: Witness, I do not know what the jury think of that sort of conduct,
but to me it adds little to the value of a witness’s evidence. Witness:
It was rather a queer question, my Lord. Mr Justice Cresswell (sharply) :
What, to ask you whether you read the debates? Don’t give such an
excuse as that for your impertinence.
An Usrortunate Name.—On Friday Mr Rotch applied to the judge
to allow a cause to stand over for an hour or two under the following cir-
cumstances:—He said, my Lord, there is a witness in this case named
John Jones, who has to come from Wales. On Wednesday the parties
expected they had all the witnesses here ready for the trial. They sent
over *a subpeena for John Jones, but as you are aware, my Lord, that is
rather an unfortunate name in Wales; when John Jones arrived it was
found that he was not the right John Jones. Another subpcena was sent
for the proper John Jones, and we have intimation that he will arrive by
the packet at three o’clock this afternoon, and as it is highly necessary
that the genuine John Jones should be here, I hope you will allow the
cause to stand over. His lordship joined in the laugh occasioned by this
statement, and allowed the case to stand over.
A LAwyYeEr’s Oprnion oF Size.—In a case involving a breach of contract,
Mr Knowles was arguing that in consequence of a bar having been placed
across the inside of an iron pan, the pan was thereby made larger. Mr
Justice Cresswell: I cannot think that a pan is larger because it has iron
bars placed across it inside. Mr Knowles: Undoubtedly, my Lord; I think
that if *you make an article which contains more iron, it is larger. Mr
Justice Cresswell; Suppose you were to fill the pan with iron, would you
say the pan was larger then? Mr Knowles: Certainly, I should, “my
Lord. (Laughter.)
CauTIon TO WitNesses.—There can no greater infliction upon
judge, jury, and counsel than the putting into the witness-box a person
who will not speak up. It is one of the greatest nuisances which attend
our courts of justice. The other day, one of these mumbling individuals
was called to give evidence in a case touching the efficiency of a machine.
Mr Justice Cresswell strongly remonstrated with the witness; the oppos-
ing counsel called, “Speak out;” the jury said, “Can’t hear;” and the
leading counsel coaxed; but all in vain, the witness could not be heard.
Mr Cowling, who was leading, said at last, “ Why can’t you speak out;
you Mr Justice Cresswell: “I have remon-
transferred for a consideration to the hands of a publisher.
be
none of us can hear?”
strated with him all I can, but it is of no use, and I hope he won’t speak
up for you, as he would not speak up for me. I must repeat what I have
before said, that I have always very great suspicion of a witness who will
not‘speak up.” =
Important LeGar Inquiry.—During a trial, on Wednesday last, in
the Crown Court, Mr Sergeant Murphy had occasion to cross-examine a
female witness as to the existence of the mafriage contract, which the
learned counsel appeared to consider of rather a questionable character,
when the following colloquy took place :—Mr Wilkins: “I apprehend we
are not here to try the question of the connubial bliss of Mr and Mrs
Mr Sergeant Murphy: “ Not at all—not in the least; but I am
unacquainted with connubial bliss, unfortunately, and I want to know
what sort of thing it is.” e o
Visits oF BENEVOLENCE TO THE TWO UNIVERSITIES.—It is announced
that Mr Bright and his friends are to visit Oxford early in the ensuing
month, for the purpose of promulgating free-trade doctrines in that famous
University city. It is only to be regretted that this very useful mission
has been undertaken during the long vacation, instead of during term, as,
owing to the absence of the great body of the gownsmen just now from
their Alma Mater, they will be prevented profiting by the information
which Mr Bright has the power of imparting.—It is also stated that the
sister University town of Cambridge is shortly to be the scene of Father
Mathew’s labours in the cause of temperance. Again we have to regret
that an extremely important subject will not be presented to the atten-
tion of our Universities by reason of their necessary absence from their
proper place of study at this season of the year.
Great Turn-out oF Mrners.—The colliery proprietors of West Cum-
berland, understanding that there was a general strike agreed upon by
their workmen to take place on the Ist of October, last week held a meet-
ing, and came to the resolution not to admit any one into their pit until
he had renounced the Union. This brought on at once the stand-out, and
at present the pits in the whole of the district are standing still.
— Higginson, who was convitted at the late assizes for the brutal
murder of his child, was executed on Saturday morning, at eight o’clock,
in front of the county goal, Stafford, in the presence of an immense con-
course of persons.
RamsGare, Ava. 30.—Yesterday the annual regatta took place at Mar-
gate, and the town was completely filled.
— The Nottingham Review says, “ Never was the hosiery trade of
Nottingham ‘in so depressed and forlorn a state as at the present time.
see
14 THE ECONOMIST. [September 2,
eS: STE A PS SLOT ee we ane A TS TT, A LT TT NS A PN ERS TTT
This is felt in all the branches of plain silk, silk knots, and plain silk
vloves, and as for silk fancy hosiery, we scarcely ever hear it named, and
silk ribbed hose is, and always wa such a small branch, that it has ever
been considered of minor importance, except to those actually engaged in
the manufacture The hands are, many of them.
three shillin per week, and how they subsist is to us a mystery: at the
same time, the masters having ng the rents of large houses to pay, and doing
but little, find themselves gradually sinking in their
Srare or THE Nation.—Home Coro
tinted to earn about
flair
Mr Robert Owen, on
in the theatre, in Not
NIZATION
mmenced a ¢ rse of lectures,
Tuesday evening, c n
tingham, on the state of the nation, and recommends, as a cure for all the
evils under wl ety is labouring, home colonizatio
— The new uiled from Southampton Thursday
week, for Cale
per mentions a pump, the water from which has th¢
— An Ame ]
extraordinary faculty of converting a quart of milk into three pints
ship Bentinch
On dit that Dr Wynter, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford, having sub
mitted Dr Pusey’s sermon to his Chancellor, the Duke of Wellingtor
before condemni it, received for answer this pithy direction from the
He must recant, or he must be silenced
led that a beneficed « lergy
military theologian
The income tax commissioners have deci
man has no right to deduct from his gross receipts stipe nds pal 1 to licensed
curatecs
Newspapers become more necessary in proportion as men become
But to suppose that they on
the)
more equal, and individuals more feared
serve to protect freedom would be to diminish their importance ;
maintain civilization.
COMMERCIAL MARKETS.
Fripay Evenitne.—O! ‘ i . : seu lar
aspect in ¢ ia I ‘ f he Unirep STates
de l } tha it f trad ‘ Stoc] ( ‘
re} ited as 1 1 both Sugar and Coffee } r I
manulfa irers wer i r ‘ ‘ with f I
the Southern St th ' ( i]
cro} ! ! I M ‘
A its from ILAVANNAI \ 4 t l
t) hipments of y ) .
boxes to t l !
I tt i | ! t ust ¥ t rand
t tf }
rT W I of :
ero ! week i if I th
I rp ] .
of A f id f
0 i
tl rhe t ‘ I 2
++) ’ i hy
he ¢ but t fa
favour of pr maint t ynsu i + y
‘ vit y low. Th uli juan y tah {
nt I .
Siweer W I } ) vn f } .
¢ \ ( i l l
lb. was rea ‘ I
r r w ite th f
isd J a t
Tot \
l
1843,
Prax.—tT s ‘ N
€ ted ; a ; i i isd] i i :
Is4 i
Svcar.—Dur ¢ t } A » bett
f I i
1 re LK bb I ‘
b I
< few a
, aa ~
Uptot fA
W I 1,2 ° ] ts
N t
I t 6. - - - (
j - g4 ‘ ‘ - )
2,34 l
Corrnt I i ust fre i 7
tra B : ed, } '
B l
< j iy fAu i
Im r ( ’ (
1842 i 1812
Foreign : - 10,1 s 12,420,588 ll ( f
B sh Planta j 1,9 i 5 ll 1117
17 1,647 lt l ( l l t l 15,1
Tea.—The 1a cor f th
l dur |the pr ear i ert i . ,
remarh
I rf Enter for ¢ pl
1 ) 1843 ] , 184
13,938,275 lt 16,0 i31 21 2,97 » lbs
E.—1 e is be i r 1 than it has b ‘ of
re-opened. negotiations with the Port: ‘
though we have confident hop that t rnment v not ’ n ¢ :
tion, but teave the Duke of Palmella to re t or accept t ter ! ly ]
and we have reason to think he will » the rm I t le has | to x
t 1 very htly; but the cousumption 1 to the 5th of August this year, as «
pared with last WS a very ht in Wink f all I
Entered for co mption to A t 5, 1842 - - 1 i
’ isnt l
Inp1co.—This article shows a very great diminutiou both in consumption and ex]
There were delivered f i Jan. l to Au ]
1842 184
Home consumption - f che . 1,986 chests,
Export - - - - - 12 ) . 419
In other dyeing materials there is little to notice, except that the import of Cochineal
; TY i iat f last ‘ el ) ly 3 25 rons r { Sif «
is very much below that of last year, being only 3,029 gerons against 4,686 serons in
1842, The price of this article is higher,
i very considerable improvement is manif« Sf
ice of food, and the ry low ces of raw materials o
7 ( i 1 era j i
nds, have produced a great impression on the consumptive ability at home
1 he latter rea has ind dala ex}
I Woo! Districts have at length s} i consideral revival, and though
fir r “ nd | }
pr ure very lo ill hands are fully employed rhe export has considerably
ised tl to tl ith of A W
l 1843
£842,207 { 1
I CoTTon DIistTrict how i r e} il en
i it adva { | © VE evi n thi ise, not
‘ I i the hor demand
( t ma i ith of A v i
i
6.441 £9
T) LINEN TRAY ] exhibit mptoms of activit and the export has
t) k trade; indeed we are near the truth, when we
mate t f Cx] th ira ‘ red itl ist ear at 2.000.000
! t t} last year w one of extre depression, and that th
re bare] ers the position we held in 1841, which was by no means a very
I) ] ipE.—I I ment ulvance of
tol I rea 1 1 th \ ire full of ‘ but no of
et au I ( calied t ind the d ind etly 1 specu-
t. These anticipate rchases and the chances of a larger
k tl demand befor mes t price, however, is still very low, and
r npt ist witl ich pr I er me there is no chang
CoRN MARKET I r re t ent 1 ent many ¢ flictir lera
tior ctir tl market, espe t ! r ce to the future prospect that we
refi fror ur pin till sor f them are better determined On the whole, the
ints of the h it | t better l re cal ited to excite our
} ! t veatl that char of feelir ind opinions are
te idden lgreatto admit of any dec 1 worth acting upon Ihe trade this week
flatt i | m tt da und lower prices have been
ta 1 to effect sa t} has been « n more felt with foreign wheat In all other
irket i ry du
I EY MARK! I isa hat improved dc 1 for money, owing
‘ } f ma ! of trade, yet very ndant at little or no
prove i- pri Good pay id it 2 per < t
PD ) ‘
PRICES ¢ | RRENT, Sept 1, 1843
- 1 } ' ny
ENGI I I , FOREIGN FUNDS. | PRICE
DAY THIS DAY
Bank § for Account = - 18% Relgium Bonds + + + = mt
I is . - Brazilian Bonds - - * 74
ver Cent. Red. - . e ° ) ; Chilian Bonds, 6 per Cent. - -| 0
ver Cent. ¢ s Money - - 4 4 Columbian Bonds, 6 per Cent ed
Cent. Annuity . = Ik2t - - -
Cent. Red. - if D 5 per Cent 2 . 101
Now ver Cent. Annuity 1014 Ditto, per Cent. Exchange 12
Rank Long Ant ‘ ‘ : Gu !
N Annuit J und J s, 1837, 5 ner Cent. 368 37
I Roy ‘ . ,6 per Cent. | nae
' : ao 13 ( i er Cent. Converted 44
% per Cent. Consols for Account - 44 4 t. Di'to 9»
Omaium " « « ° » 9 » 1822, 5 per Cent. =
| s,fper Cent. 1821, 194
} Deferred 10?
| Passive 26
CORN
} V ( H e's ¢
( MI 4 ‘4 I at ring t ek was verv unsetth
t t tof Wednesd nd Tt Vs ted fifteen hours, con
nt rked t and prevented f it fror ng carted ring the fine days at the
f the x Z ! x the far rs commenced ¢ rt again, but the rain has sinc
a ‘ t Phe us A libera pply of
f ne I 1 I t heat this morning, the condition good,
; aon f tot ruesd nd W ast—t
yp a i tot i bus the was quickly taken off by our millers at
1 aT n the ra fth Lv t e) n and le nor I iired for. sar
than ¢ j ft ' t u expect a rally In consequence
1 f ty 1 onts th ire f wil an than ti lay veek, as howeve
' t isu yw ber ated till the new crop comes to this market, w
Oct t 1 ition to press sale Beans are
I i f t al a I es. Flour f Nor k
ure pe uch
I TIsH BRITISH PRR QR.
Wheat, Fssex, Ker Suffolk, red Malt, Chevalier - . - 605 a 63s
1) { a Beans, Ti - - - - BOs a
it ! red, - —aA- —— Harrow - ~ B41 a 35s
Ditto, new, white - -—A - P mn, new dist ~ Ais a 2K
a Norfolk, Lit a Peas, white - - - dls a Sis
el as a - 50s a TiRs New boilers - - + 368 a 30s
wet US white, ° - Ol 6ls - Grey and maple ~ ~ als a 34a
West Country red, « -—a- Oats, English feed - - - 198 a 22s
DD r te, — A St mall - - - Y0s a Y4e
——— Nort a and Be Polands - - -% a 25s
wickshire, whit -_—a— st » Angu a ds
M y, A » and Ross Potatoe - - - 278 a 29s
: : é » At 425 |} Ir Limerick, N ry, Dun-
wneud» . lall, and Londonderry 193 a 22s
Ry te « ° Ds ——— Ditto, Westport, Ballina,
Ru at t i and Sligo - - 19s a IRs
Rarley, ma - 3 | ——-— Ditto, Cork and Youghal ks a 2le
Chevalier, white - 78 ——— Ditto, Black - - 198 a 18s
Distillir vhite « - 3 5s — Ditto, Galway - - 19s a iss
Grind % te - {0s a 33s Flour, townmade and Ist untry
Irish . ° - none marks per sack 48s a 53s
Malt, brown - : - -5ls a Sis | ——— Norfolk and Suffolk - ,, f2s a 43s
Pale Suf and Norfolk S5s a 57 - Stockton and Yorkshire ,, - 30s a 40)
——— Ware pale - - - sal ——TIrish - - . oe none
CORN FXCHANGR, Faipay, Serr. lL.—The weather since last Tuesday has been hot and
los no rain has fallen, but it has not been drying weather, consequently the harvest work
ceeded so well as it would have done with a fine drying wind. The arrivals this
Wheat is very dull sa t 4 re sales are forced lower prices must be
has not pr
eek are i erate
aker Rar l wer than on Monday Oats, it nsequenc f las ek's overwhelming
' of Lrist > extremely t to se t Monday’s reduced prices, but this week
the st ly Beans in bond rather more inquired for. Peas, no change, Flour, country
marks Is, to 2s, k
LONDON AVERAGES.
For the week ending August 30.
Wheat. Barley. Oats Rye. Beans. Peas.
a Gar Tt Or. | Qrs. Qrs Ors.
5,194 348 87 105 1,376 275
r 6d 30s. Oat 90s. 2d. 30s. Od. 33s. 7d. 24s. 10d.
IMPERIAL AVERAGES,
B |; Wheat Beans "cn
Weeks ending s dG ? s. d.
July lith = see e m4 9 0 5 a3 1
— Mth . ese a | am vf 33. «OY
Aug. 2 os ° 60 9 BY 24 4
te i ew ee 6l } l 33. OC?
_ lf a a ee ho 9 29 6 3 7
~ 8rd ----¢- =] & 8 31 0 » Y
Aggregate of the six weeks | 58 + é 31 7 34 0
Duties till Wednesday next | 14 1 | 6 0; 6 O | 6 6 16) 8 6
On Grain from B. P. out of | } |
Europe - = - - « : os 1 0 S01 0 4.48.4 i. 8
nah ———
Flour—Foreign 9s. per 196 1bs.-B. Possession Is. 2d. ditto.
EE LLY GT I ES BT ST TN TI SS
THE ECONOMIST.
THE GAZETTE. Friday, September 1.
| DECLARATION OF INSOLVENCY,
Tuesday, August 28, P.P. R. We lley, Wincl t
BANKRUPTS BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED
THREADGOLD, G., Finsbury circus and City road, builder [¢ arke, Georg ree W. T. Sun ple m Brudenell pla New North road, Middlesex.
wa 7. Oakley street, Lambeth, Rowley Re , Staffordshir and Walbr : es ; : BANKRUPTS,
* manufacturer. [Combe Staple ! i ELLIOTT J., CI ; ter t Stanilal ind I I treet, F']
JEANS J., Poole, p tmaster. [Cuvelje, Skilbeck, and Hall, Southampton build a ~ i ee G., 4
riMMIS, W., Longt Stafford I ira Mr Ashurst, Cheap oo , — - :
JACKSON, T. H., Sheflield, gla culter sud pon ind ‘I r, Ul lane, HOSKINE a a son . en . ; ee H =
KNIGHT, J., Preston and Lancaster, mercer. (Baxter, Lincoln’s-inn fields, MORTON 1 i alana ie i li hina ila Rai. Pontifex
DIVIDENDS 1M St Andrew's court, H
Sept. 22. J. Twisse, Manchester, power-loom cloth manufacturer—Sept, 23, J. Bent MON rEFIORE, J. B., Nich ie, ¢ mer { Wilde, Res nd ¢ Col-
. —_ : ‘ 1 . t mn. ¢ dealer ~ Shee
Dudley, grocer—Sept. 22, W. Mason, Boston, corn dealer. | PICKFORD, J., Hazle grove, Cheshire, plumber. [Gregory, Faulkner, Gr nd
CERTIFICATES Bourdillon, Bedford row, I (
Sept. 22, R. Armfield, King street, Cheapside, button manufacturer—Sept. 2 N ALLFN, J A t Dert ikeeper. (Stephens, Wilkinson, and Sat iy
Garvie, Rahere street, tailor—Sept. 20, J. Cl , Hammersmith, omnibus proprietor Q treet, ( i
—Sept. 22, T. Bull, Dilborne, Staffordshire, farmer—Sept. 26 W. Heginbottor SCOTT, J.J. M.M., Liverpool, corn merchant Archer, Liverpool, Chilton and Co.,
Ashton-under-Line, cotton spinner—Sept. 21, P. Taylor, Chorley, Lancashire, cotton Char ic, Londo
pinner HITCHCOCK, T., Alrewas, Staffordshire, v ted manufacturer. [Arnold, Hain
CERTIFICATES, Seeremper 19 and Ar 1, Birmin
PARSON G., I Sutton, Linc uit ipothecary Hare, Birminghat
H. A. Jameson, North Shields, linendraper-S. F Manchester, « 1 dealer— | |. YTHGOE, J., L erpool, cooper. Vincent and Co., Temple, London.
Hi. T. Wooler, Bucklersbury, merchant li. and ‘I W. Pa 1 5S iron
manufacturer A. Crompton, Mancl ter rocer 1. Va Milton next G en DECLARATIONS OF INSOLVENCY.
gold lace manufacturer—J. N. George, Upper Ber street, bookseller—T. H 8, | J. Beaur t, Huddersfield ocer—J, Je yp, Hu rsfield
Nettlebed, Oxfordshire, potter
, |
DECLARATIONS OF DIVIDENDS A P Mo iths! furnit roker—W. H. Walto
. . f rof d i } nl i ybr Cheshire, build
J. Sloane, Liverpool, hatter—final dividend of I dd n the pound, October 5, or Detakal teckel i a Z Gilt es — Cit sai] \ NT Be “
any subsequent Thursday, at the office of Mr Cazen I ol | cae H : South-ville. : Apes gg GA =<. Hols
kK. Seddon, Bury and Manchester, cotton spin fourth dividend of 3-16th of a | ~~! 7 he aa Cc} wz af : eee es.
penny in the pound, Septemb 19, October 10, or any subsequent Tuesda it the 2B F oh iH = i tn . W "y : WW . Oren
office of Mr Hobson, Manchester oe tine Re ~ phe onge. rae gh ee
S. Wood and Sons, Birstal, Yorkshire, machine ma —dividend of 6d. in the ea aati 2 MS He Middles See aoe
and. and S00 in the pound o , a: ¢ W. and 8. Wo eee aes She | r l K 1 1 I x, farrier D ld,
ie “weg a eae ee B P , iron-founder—J. H vorth, Meltham, Yorkshire, ca t
21, or any Thursday after October 4, at the offi f Mr Fr i I I Se ae Bradf : el ee Black? : 4
H. Parker, Offley Shore, J. Brewin and J. Rodgers, Sheflield, bankers—first div , : . —— : : . ee rae ee
Manchester, porte LB ey, I ler i Ss. D |
dend of n the pound, September 4, 5, and 6, at the Old k, Sheffield ; and '. , :
September 7 and 21 : or any ‘I redar fter Oct { t t ofl of Mr Freer . : , *B' KR. Bail , St B avel's, G mn reny : I
pie nher 7 and 21, any hur ry al ( I t the oll { I na | D wa 4 A : Jl. Flet The Vorkshis lene tinileais W. Sherlock,
UC — Stalyb : t ‘ I J. Frit I eshill, near Bradford, pla r—G
AT rR » re 1 ’ |
PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED es ae ; aD alte tenet Wee +
E. 8S. and T. F. Engley, G enor place, Comn il road, linen drape W plumb J. Smith, Dudley, Wore« e, beer reta W. Jennings, St .
Pi 1and G. Holt, of Guildford, Surrey, ca et 1 r 5S. Last ee J N Ss. |} Scott, S I xu Belfry Y orkshir liner’s
Watkins, Fenchurch street, wine merchants—W. Sim; 1 t i ind L. W t t—W. H.H rth, W ' Ww. W tt. B ‘ Lan } bute}
Wright, engineer, of Wrexham, Denbigh I W. Prit rd and P, Cornt t t. Ayt Frith street, Soh ; W. Db. Hu , Rufford’s build Islin
Liverpool, wholesale tea dealers—H. M. Griffin and T. 8. Bedford, Birmingham, | t clayet :
Mary Ann Hughes and W. C. Williams, Liver ers—J, Stanley BIRTHS
Kk. Crys Ashton-under-I I ind D { 1 Ch »
4 ’ T ¢ vd ‘
makers—R. and J. Priestly, ‘I ston Higher-end, I re, cot In Low! Lond
\ \ D A t I Dora |} la r of Earl of
inners—W. H. and F.} Mas! h, Yor L. and BE. Edwar sic ee Se pee ee
p
Newport, Monmouthshire, ta ht N | ; 7 : ; 4
N. Grinstead, Durrington, 5 ex, farm OR iT \ Jy. N , and A » ' , a s
G. Rogers, Sheffield, merchants; as far as regards G. R I 1A. P 1 , A a I ( i, I t f B '
, 1 . t ~ | T . . -
Blackfriar road, boot and sho manufat rer we und me C2 pbIT I 4 : as te wn the Tadeo? Retest (. Ghame. Ben .
woolstapler EI ind | Doudney, Lombard t ul l Nigel and At Putne (ara @ ; ; ! i
H. Richardson, Man 4 | O tt Rectory, Hig the lady of the Re R. Macdonald
DECLARATIONS OF INSOLVENCY ‘ ( f b
{ ? ) + 1 }
P. Cohen, Lant street, Southwark, dealer in vials—H. Cohen, B re place, Bo etn = ; : a mi wea meq.»
rough road, dealer in via C. Downward, Liver tailor—J. Ta Ma ter On t 5th ul Mrs William H f t Comn 1 Road. East. of a
journeyman joiner—F. Hepworth, Bradford, Yo ‘ t yj. W W , . 7?
Lancashire out of business—G. Fowler, Bawtry, Yorkshir I, Coucher Cn Manda. tha: O70 lk. ab Sh Manchastes Waltiince, DPidtiamenl tI
Bruton street, New Bond street, livery ible keeper J. Hamopt bb | str Do t f Thom Layton, } tN oO :
ver road, eating house keeper—R. Brown, Bel buil Salisbury square, | t ( t at tl Grove, R " 1. Yorkshi: al P. C. Maxwell
street, commission agent—J. H. Evans, Strood t hk ter wcer—F, W. W t | F ™ ° 7
man, (otherwise F W ea, clerk—S. L \ clo Seok
drawer—J. Hart! idford, Yorks} 7 h G. Nev Ba York ‘ MARI ‘
clothier—J. Redgrave, Walcot square, Lambeth, out of busine J.Sw k, Cal Ont ] it St M , Batt t R r t Tritt R
verley, Yorkshire, clothier lr. Gowar, Took’s court, ¢ treet. Chancery M | Gu i 1, of I | } to H ¢ ‘
law writer—A. Levi, Wedn yur Staffordsl tcl ike y. E W t ite H y 1, Esq fStJ B
Shropshire, blacksmitl Mary De R. Lawrence, Bernard street, Brunsw l J Ont nd ult it St Paneras ¢ byt Rev. J. W. Gleada 1.A I mas
Beaumont, Huddersfield, grocer—J. Jessop, Hudder 1, innkeeper—J. Walker Webb. ] f Tutbury, « t f the John Webb, Esa.. of B =
Huddersfield, cloth finisher—G. Battye, Nethertl Y orkshir« lyer—W. Anse \ 1, Staff } to | | la of the late John B Esq.,
Pontypool, dealer in cloth A. Broomhead, Dul eld, ¢ e, builder—S. | t ] D
Dimond, Bristol, butcher—T. Cook, Giltspur street, ta W.N. Ba iH l Ont ) t t W ( by the R G. Weight, (¢ ] I Vir-
Torkard, Nottinghamshire, bookkeeper—W. H. Walton, M ate, prof rofd | eldest daughter of Z. Vantini, I to Mr Blott. of Wolverton, Bu
H. Gordon, Wandsworth t of t G. Huh Manchester, out of
1 A. Dunlop, Manchester, agent—W. G. Cranston, Hammersmitl ' ver | DEATHS
W. L. Webster, Manchester, cutler—R. Gillion, 8 in, Yorkshire, labourer—C On the 28th ult., in his 8lst year, James Gibson, Esq., of Great St Helen's, and la
Cooper, Sheflield, glass grinder—J. Dangerfic Bridge vy, P rd | .
R. M. Sucklin therwi R. Sucklin Hendo blacksmith—J. H vortl A On Saturday, the 2 nit & the } ¢ } father. Harwood ha I ter
mondbury, carpenter—D. Crabtree, Bradford, beer reta J. Shorro Black! | a Tamhasiah { j , ion ‘Shia as 7
warper—M. Jobin, Manchester, port J Bea , Live ( er in to } . .
S. Deakin, Blaenavon, Monn t] I I ‘ went—-W. N. B. Harman, Windsor oO ) ‘ ' ; , 11W — a , ’ aaa
terrace, Dover road, dealer in jev ery RK. B , ju Kast Dean, Gloucestershire, ( l Vi. DD ' of t il M oe F
labourer, oO ‘ ‘ ‘ ; , a Seah ee
SCOTCH ! SEQUESTRATION 1 ; ade = eee oy, ae
J. Arnot, Edinburgh, merchant. Ont 2 lt Park st t, ( venor square, the Hon Mrs Cha lloward.
ADVERTISEMENTS. ras De CARTOONS ATLAS NEWSPAPER FOR INDIA
: . | — GRY 18 PUDNSHINEs PE ° rT P DLA ind COLO ry] T
EE Ey) BV hema Oo oh ee a ed ee ee
‘ 1 sis ntaining Matters esp aily nterest
ok se : i
Booksellers, 4 AR TOONS. HeNRY G. CLARKE. ae to the In un reader, witl i the N ft ast Montl
at . Ny
A* ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE of A HAND-ROOK GUIDE to the CARTOONS, Price 3d. 1 be pu MONDAY NEXT, the 4 t
the BOOKS published by JOHN VAN VOORST, | FHE ART-UNION EXHIBITION for 1843. Price 3d. | — Price One Shilling, including postage to Bombay. May be
with a Specimen Illustration from each of the following | Pui ROYAL GALLERY, HAMPTON COURT PA had of all Newsmen Booksellers.
Owen’s History of British Fossil Mammalia. | LACE Price 3d Atlas Off 6 Southampton street, Strand,
Baptismal Fonts. | Lor n: H. G. Clarke and Co. 66 Old Bailey; and sold at September 2, 1843
Selby’s History of British Forest Trees. j the entrance to Westminster Hal _
The Vicar of Wakefield. Illustrated by Mulready | c
c lust Mulready, . ee : on |} ONE HUNDRED FOREIG RBLE CHIMNEY-
Jenyns’s Edition of White’s Selborne. T ll E Eo O RF O MI S&S Ti ss PIECES ON View a
Bullars’ inter in the res
liars’ Winter i A w . DAWSON and SON, Lo i at | Country News- TH WESTMINSTER MARBLE COM-
Crosse’s Canadian Naturalist aper 1 ;
Aikin’s Iustration of Arts and Manufactures, | (Esta he “ tf - rm t ie yet . PANY have v completed their Ma ry» ven
Moule’s Heraldry of Fish. oon expectfully Inform thetr irlends & will enable them in future to supply every ety of Mart
Jones’s Outline of the Animal Kingdom. a rl a t t oa os ae a e reduction in pri
ell’s 0 triti ’ ' cr t pers @ i ‘ »A r 7
ed Hist ry of British Qu udrupeds, | Ward them pu t » every part of t United Kingdom : a M ; with Mot i
arrell's History of British Birds. io atee t 7 > , ” he «
ell’s History of British Reptiles. | nt ie M rning an Kx fails, sw l us to Gibr alta Marble Cl to BL.
Varrell’s History of British Fishes. ata — rs a . a Islands, | : wacee OI — wa J ast In mn f lhea ved to the
Forbes's History of British Starfishes, t est Indies, ¢ 7 Matty Cs } f Post . per } I t tas Agents, can ha\ e
Newman’s Familiar History of Insects, an Cape Good Hoy : i other J : warded by enclosing T'wenty Postage
Paternoster row, July 1843 Dubli : ; ki e A h ( Sead Sean ane F
ae — | New Ap I al 1 Per' ! al Pu ii at ns at the sited waa { Direct, “ rhe W stminster Marble Company, Earl street,
Just published, in 12mo. price 10s. dom, and of Foreign Countries H orseferry road
x y ‘ OHS . ri ? . ° » , —— ay t
HE PROGRESS of the NA‘ ION, in its z= > wil —— eaten, pote ee
. J oe ne th eve attention, and insure an ea sertion 0 - y rEepPa NE “Q :
various Social and Economical Relations, from the bi sasha aidoeseeennons } i n 1 of WALKER’S NEEDLES (by authority
ginning of the Ninteenth Century to the Present Time. By : , e the ** Queen’s Own”), in the illustrated Chinese
G. R. PORTER, Esq. F.R.S. Vol. 111—containing Cor i elivery ; eed les
, . contal 1 Consump ’ 2 : “1 IN HU .. boxes, are now in urse of delivery to the trade. ‘I eedles
ame Accumulation, Moral Progress, and Colonies and Foreigt ANTI-CORN A UE IN HUNTING hav aT eyes usily threaded (ev = he blind per a oa
enendencie SILER - ce : ns % oy de ee a
pendencies, improved points, temper, andjfinish. Each paper is labelled
Th svo Pp wa) "te he lay . F ; lo nr » >
ee ; —_ « mpletes the Work, and furnishes some sup- ‘ ‘ This day, 60 pp. price Sixpence, wr with a likeness of her Majesty or his Royal Highness Prince
r vw ti é ( . Ce > oe 2 : on arr . hn ATT ; i | i
SanMGhed: wish a wenasiens ind pt volumes previously WE DEFEATER DEFEA TED; being a ,» Albert, in relief on ured grounds. Every quality of needies,
hed, 1 a complete In , ; > . : >
6d. eacl al co % aise 1€ previous volumes, 7s. | Refutation of Mr Day's Pamphlet, entitled “ Defeat of |4 fish hooks, hooks and eyes, steel pens, &c. for shipping. These
pulati cel ternh cea Fe Ts onsen g—Vol 1, Po- | the Anti-Corn-League in Huntingdonshire.” By JAmgs |. needles or pens for the home trade are se free by post, by
atic ( duction ; V« , nee. § ; ‘
an uction ; Vol.-I1, Interchange, and Revenue Hint uthor of «1D ad.” © Hunger anc lu- any respectable dealer, on receipt of [13 penny stamps for
’ ior of Daily Bread, ger a evolu } I 5 k
and Expenditure. Or the three Volumes for 94s, j
. ym,” value. — H. Walker, anufa or t 8
London; Charles Knight and Go, Ludgate street, tion, a alker, manufacturer to the
ugham Wilson, 18 Bishopsgate strect Within. | Queen, 20 Maiden lane, Wood street, Loudon,
} every shill
PE AS CB =
ca
t ¥ } i { } }
16
RITANNIA LIFE ASSURANCE COM- |
PANY, | Princes street, Bank, London.
Empowered by Special Act of Parliament, IV Vict. cap. IX.
DIRECTORS. tobert Eglinton, Esq.
Erasmus Rt. Foster, Esq.
Alex. Robert Irvine, Esq.
Peter Morison, Esq.
} Henry Lewis Smale,
Thomas Teed, Esq.
William Bardgett, Es
Samuel Bevington, Esq.
Wm. Fechney Black, Esq.
John Brightman, Esq.
George Cohen, Esq.
Millis Coventry, Esq.
John Drewett, Esq.
AUDITORS
J. B. Bevington, Esq.; F. P. Cockerill, Esq.; J. D. Dow, Esq
MRBDICAL OFFICER .
John Clendinning, M.D. F.R.S. 16 Wimpole street, Cavendish
square.
STANDING COUNSEL.
The Hon. John Ashley, New square, Lincoln’s inn.
Mr Serjeant Murphy, M.P. Temple. |
SOLICITOR. |
William Bevan, Esq. Old Jewry.
BANKERS. |
Messrs Drewett and Fowler, Princes street, Bank. |
This Institution is empowered by a special Act of Parlia-
ment, and is so constituted as to afford the benefits of Life |
Assurance in their fullest extent to Policy-holders, and to |
present greater facilities and acg@ammodation than are usually
offered by other Companies.
Assurances may either be effected by Parties on their own
Lives, or by Parties interested therein on the Lives of Others.
Theeffect of an Assurance on a person's own life is to create
at once a Property in Reversion, which can by no other means
be realized. ‘ake, for instance, the case of a person at the
age of Thirty, who, by the payment of 5/. 3s. 4d. to the Bri-
tannia Life Assurance Company, can become at once possessed
of a bequeathable property, amounting to 1,0002., subject only
to the condition of his continuing the same payment quarterly
during the remainder of his life—a condition which may be
fulfilled by the mere saving of Eight Shillings weekly in his
expenditure. Thus, by the exertion of a very slight degree of
economy—such indeed, as can scarcely be felt as an inconve-
nience, he may at once realise a capital of 1,0002., which he
can bequeath or dispose of in any way he may think proper.
A Table of Decreasing Rates of Premium ona novel and
remarkable plan; the Policy-holder having the option of dis-
continuing the payment of all further Premiums after
Twenty, Fifteen, Ten, and even Five years; and the Policy
still remaining in force—in the first case, for the full amount
originally assured ; and in either of the three other cases, for
a portion of the same according to a fixed and equitable scale
endorsed upon the Policy.
Increasing Rates of Premium on a new and remarkable plan
for securing Loans or Debts; a less immediate payment being
required on a Policy for the whole term of Life than in any
!
other Office. |
Age of the Assured in every case admitted in the Policy.
All claims payable within one Month after proof of death.
Medical Attendants remunerated in all cases for their
reports.
Extract from Increasing Rates of Premium, for an Assurance
of 100/.-for Whole Term of Life.
Annual Premiums payable during
| Ist Five 2nd Five | 3rd Five | 4th Five | Remainder
Age| Years. Years. Years Years. of Life.
ro Bi a 21k. t HE. 2. 41H @ @ }
9 1 14 1 5210/1 Wl) 1 1 Y ae. ae
mis Celi WPsirt’ Wiis Fs 2 17 6
meiiwii? 4 2 46/3 7 3 . ©. }
#2167 3 9 9 5'5 6 3 6137 |
Detailed P rect and € requisite information as
to the mode of effecting ssu es, May be obtained at the |
Office. PETER MORRISON, Resident Dircctor.
*,* A Board of Directors attend daily at Two o'clock, for
the despatch of Business.
oe LIFE INSURANCE COM-
PANY, No. 10 Chatham place, Blackfriars, London.
Established, January, 1819.
PRESIDENT.
Sir James Rivett Carnac, Bart. VICE-PRESIDENT }
George Forbes, Esq. No. 9 Fitzroy square. |
With Twelve Directors. |
Facilities are offered by this long-established Society 39 suit
the views and the means of every class of Pre-
miums are rece! yearly, yearly, or quarter r upon
an increasing or decreasit An insurance of 100/. may
be effected on the ascer . > by an annual premium for
the first five years of 1/. 9s. at the age of 25; Li. 1Ys. Od. at
30; U2. 17s. at 35; 2. 2s. at 40; and Y/. 9s. 6d. at 45; or,
one-half only of e usual rate, with interest on the re-
mainder, will be received for five or seven years, the other
half to be paid at the convenience of the assured |
The insured for life participate septennially in the profits
realised. j
A liberal commission is allowed to Solicitors and Agents
DAVID FOGGO, Secretary
N.B. Agents are wanted in towns where none have yet been |
appointed
DARSONS’S ALEPPO OFFICE
WRITING INK —This very superior Ink, being made |
with pure Aleppo Galls. is equally adapted for Quills and Steel |
Pens, and combines the requisite q ties of Incorrodibility
and Permanency of Colour with an easy flow from the Pen.
It is therefore strongly recommended to Merchants, Bankers,
Solicitors, Accountants, and others. |
*,* Warranted not to be affected either by time or climate.
Soild in Quart. Pint, Half-pint, and Sitpenny Bottles, by |
John Parsons, Manuufacturer of Printing and Writing Inks, |
) Orange street, Gravel lane, Southwark ; and 9 Ave Maria
lane, London. |
ITHOGRAPHY.—Architectural and Me-
chanical Drawings, Maps, Pians of Railways and
Estates, Landscapes, Circular Letters, and Fac-similes of any
original, executed on Stone and Zinc, and Printed in a su
perior manner, at CLERK'S GENERAL LITHOGRAPH
ESTABLISHMENT, 202 High Holborn, nearly opposite South-
ampton street.
W EST’S MICROSCOPE for the MIL-
LION.—A newly-constructed Microscope, particu-
larly adaptea for aquatic and botanical research, packed
in a neat mahogany case, 4} inches by 5}, with apparatus and
dissecting instruments complete. Price 26s. With a descrip-
tion and Calendar of the most interesting objects to be viewed
by the Microscope. Power, 8,000 times. To be had of all
Booksellers, or at the Manufactory, 83 Fleet street, and 41
Strand, near Charing cross. A Cabinet of objects prepared for
the above, price %s. 6d. Can be sent by post,
Read WEST’s TREATISE on the HUMAN EYE.
Price 6d. Containing Practical Rules, that ble all to
judge what Spectacles are best calculated to preserve their eyes
to extreme old age ; illustrated wich three correct Diagrams
of the Human Eye. 4
West's Stanhope Lens, Price ds. 6d, to?
THE ECONOMIS
MANCHESTER
T HE TIMES.
A FREE-TRADE NEWSPAPER.
Published every Saturday, by Prentice and Cathrall, Dusic
place, Manchester.
The MANCHESTER TIMES was established less as a busi-
ness speculation than as a means of promoting the principles
of Civil, Religious, and Commercial Liberty ; and every great
political and social reform, in a period of unusual advance-
ment, has received its zealous assistance.
In the establishment of new, and the reform of old, Edu-
cational Institutions, it has been eminently useful; and it was
the only paper published in Manchester which opposed the
bilt of Church aggression brought forward by Sir J. Graham,
under the guise of a “‘ Factory Education Bill.”
“* It was the only paper in Manchester which devoted its
space tothe proceedings of the Anti-Slavery Society, and the
editorial articles which appeared from time to time were not
uninfluential in forming that public opinion which effected
the emancipation of the negroes in our colonies.
It took the lead of all the provincial papers in opposition to
Church Rates, and is now the only paper in Manchester which
traces all such exactions to their source—the unhappy con-
nexion of Church and State
It was the only provincial paper in the kingdom which ex
posed that iniquitous monopoly of the King’s Printer and the
Universities, which made the Bible double the price at which,
since the destruction of the monopoly in Scotland, it is now
published.
Its expositions of the old representative system previous to
the proposal of the Reform Bill were of acknowledged utility ;
and, since the passing of that great but still imperfect mea-
sure, it has not ceased to advocate a fuller and more complete
representation of the people, with full protection to the voter
from the exercise of undue influences.
It has unceasingly been the earnest advocate of perfect free-
dom of Trade, not only for its direct benefits, but as a means
of promoting universal peace ; and it is not too much to affirm
that the lead which Manchester has taken in the present great
movement against the landowners’ monopoly may, in a con-
siderable degree, be attributed to che effect produced upon the
public mind by the constantly-repeated expositions in the
MANCHESTER Times of the mischiefs inflicted by the corn
laws.
Such was the course pursued when the proprietors were in
advance of public opinion, and when they had to struggle
with difficulties which would have overwhelmed men of less
attachment to principle and less determination to carry out
the views which they were pledged to maintain. That such a
course has been pursued, under such circumstances, is no
slight guarantee, that now, with fewer temptations to expe-
diency, Civil, Religious, and Commercial Liberty will con-
tinue to be promoted with unabated zeal and energy
The price of the paper is 5s. per quarter on credit; and when
pa n advance, 4s. 9s. per quarter, Ys. 6d. per half year, and
i8s. per annum. Kemittances are made most conveniently in
Post-office orders
Times office, May, 1843
M. A. NATTALI begs to announce that he has REMOVED
to 24 Bedford street, Covent Garden
ATTALI’S POST CIRCULAR. of
BOOKS, forwarded GRATIS to all parts of the King-
dom by applying, pre-paid.
Fosbroke’s Encyclopedia of Antiquities, a
w and Enlarged Edition, 145 Plates and Cuts, 2 large
ls. roval Svo. (1,100 pages.) Published at 2/. 1¥s. 6d. ; reduced
to lJ. 15s. cloth lettered.
Fosbroke’s British Monochism; or, the
Manners and Customs of the Monks and Nuns of England,
15 Plates and Cuts, New Edition, enlarged, royal 8vo. cloth
! at ll. ls.;
lettered. Publishe reduced to lbs
Nichols’s Autographs of Royal, Noble,
Learned, and Remarkable Personages, 55 Plates, exhibiting
about 600 A rraplis, printed on tinted paper, royal fol
cloth lettered. Published at 4/. 4s.; for 1/7. 6s.
Britton’s Cathedrals of England, 300 Plates.
5 vols. 4to. half Morocco elegant, for Li. 15s. ; published at 35/
Britton’s Architectural Antiquities of
Great Britain, 360 Plates, 5 vols. 4to. half-Morocco elegant,
for 15/, 15s.; published at 31/. 10s.
Library of Entertaining Knowledge, up-
wards of 1,000 Cuts, 43 vols. 12mo, bound,
6l.; published at 9/. 13s. 6d
“This is a cheap and elegant library of instruction and
amusement.”
Pugin’s Specimens of Gothic Architecture,
114 Plates, 2 vols. 4to. half-bound Morocco, for 4/. 4s.; pub-
lished at 6, 6s
i 1
oth lettered, for
Pugin’s Architecture of
"lates by Le Keux, 4t
Of. O38.
Normandy, 80
hed at
lf-Morocco, 3/. 3s.; publi
Liverseege’s Works, in 37 Plates, in mez-
zotinto, by Cousens, &c. folio, half-bound Morocco elegant,
gilt leaves, for 2/. 12s. 6d.; published at (i/ 6s.
** As an artist he was excellent in expressing character.”
Britton’s Ancient Ecclesiastical Architee-
ture of Great Britain, 80 Plates, 4a lf-bound Morocco,
uncut, for 3s.; published at 6/. 15s
Flaxman’s Compositions from Dante. 111
Plates, oblong folio, half-bound Morocco, for 2. 2s.; published
at 4/. 4s.
“* Flaxman has translated Dante best, for he has translated
it into the universal language of nature.”—Lord Byron,
Pugin’s Ornaments of the Fifteenth and
Sixteentt Century, VizZ.:—
Designs for Gold and Silver
Ornaments. And
Designs for Ir-n and Brass
Work in the style of the
Fifteenth and Sixteenth
Century.
102 Plates, Drawn and Etched by A. W. Pugin, 4to. half-
bound Morocco elegant, with gilt edges, reduced to 2/. 12s. 6d. ;
published at 4/ 14s. 6d
*,.* Each Work is sold separately at the reduced price of
]2s. in cloth.
Dibdin’s Northern Tour, 100 Plates, 2 vols
royal 8vo. boards, for 2/. 2s.; published at 4/. l4s. 6d.
Don Quixote, beautifully illustrated with
74 Plates, by Smirke, 4 vols. royal 8vo. large paper proofs, in
boards, for 2/. Ys.; published at 15/. 15s.
————— half-bound Morocco,
2s. 6d.
Ancient Timber Houses at
Rouen, Caen, Beauvais,
&c. &
Gothic Fur
teenth Ce
ture of the Fif-
tury.
uncut,
2.
Another Edition, small paper, with only 50
Plates, 4 vols. 8vo. half-Morocco, li. 6s.; published at 6i. 6s.
Heber’sg.Life and Correspondence with
Eminent PB s, Portrait, &c. 2 vols. 4to. cloth lettered, for
only 18s. hed at 3/. 13s. 6d.
Cotmaifs. Architectural Antiquities of
Normanay7i@0 Plate, 2 vols. in 1, folio, half-bound Morocco,
6/. Gs. ; published at 12/. 12s.
Flaxman’s Anatomical Studies for the Use
of Artists, 18 Plates, by Landseer, folio, cloth, L/. 4s.
M, A, Nattali, 23 Bedford street, Covent garden.
(September 2.
. UNDER THE SPECIAL PATRONAGE OF
HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY,
H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT, THE ROYAL FAMILY,
AND THE SEVERAL COURTS OF EUROPE.
ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL,
For the Growth, and for Preserging and Beautifying the
Human Hair.
*,* To ensure the real article, see that the words Row-
land's Macassar Oil are engraven on the back of the label
nearly 1,500 times, containing 29,028 letters. Without this
None are Genuine. ROWLAND’S KALYDOR,
For Improving and Beautifying the Skin and Complexion.
ROWLAND’S ODONTO,
or PEARL DENTIFRICE,
Renders the Teeth beautifully white, and preserves the
Gums,
CAUTION.
Numerous pernicious Compounds are universally offered
for saleas the real ‘‘ Macassar Or.” and ‘ KALYDOR,”
(some under the implied sanction of Royalty), the labels and
bills of the original articles are copied, and either a FICTI-
rious NAME or the word “ GENUINE” js used in the place
of ** ROWLAND'S.”
It is therefore necessary on purchasing either Article to see
that the word ** ROWLAND’S” is on the Envelope. For
the protection of the Public from fraud and imposition, the
Honourable Commissioners of Her Majesty's Stamps have
authorized the Proprietors to have their Names engraven on
the Government Stamp, which is affixed tothe KALYDOR
and ODONTO, thus—
A. ROWLAND & SON,
No. 20, HATTON GARDEN.
*,* All others are SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
IJIANOFORTES of every description,
warranted of the best Materials and Workmanship, sell-
ing at low prices: also Self-playing Pianofortes and Organs,
of great powerand sweetness, with and without keys, from
28/.—N.B. Several very good Pianofortes, by Broadwood and
other Makers; also Double-Action Harps, small Finger
Organs, and Seraphins, to be sold cheap; a Six-Octave Cabinet
Piano, 18/.; a ditto in Rosewood Case, 24/.; at Mr Davis's
Manufactory, 20 Southampton street, Strand (Removed from
Blackfriars road),
IMBIRD’S MAGNUM BONUM PENS.
—One dozen highly-finished Steel Pens, with Holder, in
a box, for 6d.; name-plate engraved for 2s. 6d.; 100 cards
printed for 2s, 6d.; crest and name engraved on visiting card
for 6s.; arms and crests for book plates on the most reason-
able terms; travelling writing-desks at ¥s. 6d. 10s. 6d. l2s. Gd.
and I4s. 6d. each; dressing-cases from 6s. 6d. each; blotting
books in great variety,’from 9d.; with locks, 2s. each; royal
writing-papers—diamond, five quires for ls. 2d.; the Queen's
and Prince Albert’s size, five quires for ls. 6d.; envelopes,
Jd. and Is. the 100 ; and every article in stationery, of the
best quality and lowest prices, at Limbird’s, 143 Strand,
facing Catherine street.
TATURAL MINERAL WATERS.—
4 E. H. DUHAMEL and Co. 7 Duke street, Grosvenor
square, have constantiy on sale the undernamed Natural
Mineral Waters, which they can supply fresh and genuine at
& very reasonable price.
Baréges Cheltenham | Malvern | Schwalbach
Bath | kms | Marienbad Sedlitz
Bonnes | Fachi n Pulina Selters
Bristol } Harrogate Pyrmont Spa
Cauterets { Kissengen Saidschutz Vichy, &a
Genuine Eau de Cologne, digestive Pastilles de Vichy, and
t
various foreign articles of Pharmacy. E. H, D. and Co. are
the only agents for the Copahine-Meége, and for J. Jourdain,
Mege and Co.'s Dragées Minérales and Dragées Carboniques
for effervercing lemonade, and also for their Pilules Carboni-
ques, preventive of sea sickness and vomitings of every de-
scription.
I'he Dragées Minérales, with which a tumbler of mineral
Ww can be instantan sly produced, are considered as the
*nuine waters, When these cannot be
best substitute ¢
procured and have the advantage of being much « heaper.
JANCLIBANON IRON WORKS,
BAZAAR, No. 58 BAKER STREET, PORTMAN
SQUARE, LONDON. —Gentlemen about
going abroad, will find it worth their attention to look into
the above Establishment, where they will find the largest
assortment of General Furnishing lronmongery ever offered
to the Public, consisting of tin, copper, and iron cooking
utensils, table cutlery, best Shifield plate, German silver
Wares, papier mac tea trays, tea and coffee urns, stove
grates, kitchen ranges, fenders and fire-irons, baths of all
kinds, shower, hot, cold, vapour, plunging, &c. Ornamental
iron and wire Works tor conservatories, lawns, &c. and garden
engines. Adil articles ar> selected of the very best description,
and offered ceedingly low prices, for cash only ; the
price of each being made in plain figures.
TATIONAL LINEN WAREHOUSES;
L 105 Fleet street, corner of Farringdon street ; Fact: ry
and Bleaching grounds, Lisburn, Ireland; Manufacturers
and Bleachers of Irish Linens, Sheetings, ‘Tablecloths, Long-
cloths, Calicos, &c.—Families or public companies can have
their n crests or emblematical designs made to order, in
any sized tablecloths, with napkins to match. In conse
quence of the improvements lately introduced into their ma-
chinery, attention is invited to the extraordinary prices at
which linen manufactures are being offered at these ware-
houses ;
cloths, measuring five yards long, 15s. each. Sheeting manu-
factured four yards wide without a seam. Families who re-
quire good wearing linens may confidently rely on the manu-
facture sold at this establishment. Samples, if required, can
be forwarded to any part of town or country. Prospectuses,
containing a list of the goods and prices, can be had at the
Warehouses, or by post. Retail entrance, 105 Fleet street.
to furnish, or
amongst the table linens is a lot of magnificent table-
Be IWN’S TEMPERANCE HOTEL,
COMMERCIAL AND FAMILY HOUSE, No. %
Clayton square, Liverpool.— Commercial Gentlemen and
Families visiting Liverpool, are solicited to try this establish-
ment, being centrally situated, and possessing comfartable ac-
commodations. Private sitting Rooms, &c.
PATENT MOHAIR CAMLOMERE.
WROTECTION FROM WET,
combined with lightness, and Perspiration not impeded
by the useof PATENT MOHAIR CAMLOMERE, which
is the greatest repellent yet invented, when properly made.
rhe little wet it imbibes is soon dry, and has nosmell: is
suited to all climates by the use of a thin or stout lining; it is
made in all colours like cloth, and is highly approved of by
those gentlemen who have worn it. A large assortment of
Frocks, Capes, and Cloaks are kept ready. New patterns of
the Patent Mohair Cloth for Trousers, Jackets, &c. in great
variety ; an inspection is solicited. None are real but those
stamped Fox’s Patent Mohair, 28 King street, Covent garden,
and attheir Agents, 19 Conduit street, Bond Street.
Printed by CHARLES REYNELL, 16 Little Pulteney street,
in the Parish of St James, Westminster; and Published by
him at the Office of the Journal, No, 6 Wellington street
Strand,—September 2, 1843, 